[ mobi dick by herman melvil 1851 ] etymolog . ( suppli by a late consumpt usher to a grammar school ) the pale usher -- threadbar in coat , heart , bodi , and brain ; I see him now . He wa ever dust hi old lexicon and grammar , with a queer handkerchief , mockingli embellish with all the gay flag of all the known nation of the world . He love to dust hi old grammar ; it somehow mildli remind him of hi mortal . `` while you take in hand to school other , and to teach them by what name a whale - fish is to be call in our tongu leav out , through ignor , the letter H , which almost alon maketh the signif of the word , you deliv that which is not true . '' -- hackluyt `` whale . ... Sw . and dan . hval . thi anim is name from round or roll ; for in dan . hvalt is arch or vault . '' -- webster ' S dictionari `` whale . ... It is more immedi from the dut . and ger . wallen ; A . S . walw - ian , to roll , to wallow . '' -- richardson ' S dictionari keto , greek . cetu , latin . whoel , anglo - saxon . hvalt , danish . wal , dutch . hwal , swedish . whale , iceland . whale , english . balein , french . ballena , spanish . peke - nuee - nuee , fege . peke - nuee - nuee , erromangoan . extract ( suppli by a sub - sub - librarian ) . It will be seen that thi mere painstak burrow and grub - worm of a poor devil of a sub - sub appear to have gone through the long vatican and street - stall of the earth , pick up whatev random allus to whale he could anyway find in ani book whatsoev , sacr or profan . therefor you must not , in everi case at least , take the higgledi - piggledi whale statement , howev authent , in these extract , for verit gospel cetolog . far from it . As touch the ancient author gener , as well as the poet here appear , these extract are sole valuabl or entertain , as afford a glanc bird ' s eye view of what ha been promiscu said , thought , fanci , and sung of leviathan , by mani nation and gener , includ our own . So fare thee well , poor devil of a sub - sub , whose comment I am . thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of thi world will ever warm ; and for whom even pale sherri would be too rosi - strong ; but with whom one sometim love to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivi upon tear ; and say to them bluntli , with full eye and empti glass , and in not altogeth unpleas sad -- give it up , sub - sub ! for by how much the more pain ye take to pleas the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! would that I could clear out hampton court and the tuileri for ye ! but gulp down your tear and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your heart ; for your friend who have gone befor are clear out the seven - stori heaven , and make refuge of long - pamper gabriel , michael , and raphael , against your come . here ye strike but splinter heart togeth -- there , ye shall strike unsplinter glass ! extract . `` and god creat great whale . '' -- genesi . `` leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; one would think the deep to be hoari . '' -- job . `` now the lord had prepar a great fish to swallow up jonah . '' -- jonah . `` there go the ship ; there is that leviathan whom thou hast made to play therein . '' -- psalm . `` In that day , the lord with hi sore , and great , and strong sword , shall punish leviathan the pierc serpent , even leviathan that crook serpent ; and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea . '' -- isaiah `` and what thing soever besid cometh within the chao of thi monster ' s mouth , be it beast , boat , or stone , down it goe all incontin that foul great swallow of hi , and perisheth in the bottomless gulf of hi paunch . '' -- holland ' S plutarch ' S moral . `` the indian sea breedeth the most and the biggest fish that are : among which the whale and whirlpool call balaen , take up as much in length as four acr or arpen of land . '' -- holland ' S plini . `` scarc had we proceed two day on the sea , when about sunris a great mani whale and other monster of the sea , appear . among the former , one wa of a most monstrou size . ... thi came toward us , open - mouth , rais the wave on all side , and beat the sea befor him into a foam . '' -- took ' S lucian . `` the true histori . '' `` He visit thi countri also with a view of catch hors - whale , which had bone of veri great valu for their teeth , of which he brought some to the king . ... the best whale were catch in hi own countri , of which some were forti - eight , some fifti yard long . He said that he wa one of six who had kill sixti in two day . '' -- other OR octher ' S verbal narr taken down from hi mouth BY king alfr , A . D . 890 . `` and wherea all the other thing , whether beast or vessel , that enter into the dread gulf of thi monster ' s ( whale ' s ) mouth , are immedi lost and swallow up , the sea - gudgeon retir into it in great secur , and there sleep . '' -- montaign . -- apolog for raimond sebond . `` let us fli , let us fli ! old nick take me if is not leviathan describ by the nobl prophet mose in the life of patient job . '' -- rabelai . `` thi whale ' s liver wa two cartload . '' -- stow ' S annal . `` the great leviathan that maketh the sea to seeth like boil pan . '' -- lord bacon ' S version OF the psalm . `` touch that monstrou bulk of the whale or ork we have receiv noth certain . they grow exceed fat , insomuch that an incred quantiti of oil will be extract out of one whale . '' -- ibid . `` histori OF life and death . '' `` the sovereignest thing on earth is parmacetti for an inward bruis . '' -- king henri . `` veri like a whale . '' -- hamlet . `` which to secur , no skill of leach ' s art mote him avail , but to return again To hi wound ' s worker , that with lowli dart , dint hi breast , had bred hi restless pain , like as the wound whale to shore fli thro ' the main . '' -- the faeri queen . `` immens as whale , the motion of whose vast bodi can in a peac calm troubl the ocean til it boil . '' -- sir william daven . prefac TO gondibert . `` what spermacetti is , men might justli doubt , sinc the learn hosmannu in hi work of thirti year , saith plainli , nescio quid sit . '' -- sir T . brown . OF sperma ceti and the sperma ceti whale . vide hi V . E . `` like spencer ' s talu with hi modern flail He threaten ruin with hi ponder tail . ... their fix jav ' lin in hi side he wear , and on hi back a grove of pike appear . '' -- waller ' S battl OF the summer island . `` By art is creat that great leviathan , call a commonwealth or state -- ( in latin , civita ) which is but an artifici man . '' -- open sentenc OF hobb ' S leviathan . `` silli mansoul swallow it without chew , as if it had been a sprat in the mouth of a whale . '' -- pilgrim ' S progress . `` that sea beast leviathan , which god of all hi work creat hugest that swim the ocean stream . '' -- paradis lost . -- - '' there leviathan , hugest of live creatur , in the deep stretch like a promontori sleep or swim , and seem a move land ; and at hi gill draw in , and at hi breath spout out a sea . '' -- ibid . `` the mighti whale which swim in a sea of water , and have a sea of oil swim in them . '' -- fulller ' S profan and holi state . `` So close behind some promontori lie the huge leviathan to attend their prey , and give no chanc , but swallow in the fri , which through their gape jaw mistak the way . '' -- dryden ' S annu mirabili . `` while the whale is float at the stern of the ship , they cut off hi head , and tow it with a boat as near the shore as it will come ; but it will be aground in twelv or thirteen feet water . '' -- thoma edg ' S ten voyag TO spitzbergen , IN purcha . `` In their way they saw mani whale sport in the ocean , and in wanton fuzz up the water through their pipe and vent , which natur ha place on their shoulder . '' -- sir T . herbert ' S voyag into asia and africa . harri coll . `` here they saw such huge troop of whale , that they were forc to proceed with a great deal of caution for fear they should run their ship upon them . '' -- schouten ' S sixth circumnavig . `` We set sail from the elb , wind N . E . in the ship call the jona - in - the - whale . ... some say the whale can ' t open hi mouth , but that is a fabl . ... they frequent climb up the mast to see whether they can see a whale , for the first discover ha a ducat for hi pain . ... I wa told of a whale taken near shetland , that had abov a barrel of her in hi belli . ... one of our harpoon told me that he caught onc a whale in spitzbergen that wa white all over . '' -- A voyag TO greenland , A . D . 1671 harri coll . `` sever whale have come in upon thi coast ( fife ) anno 1652 , one eighti feet in length of the whale - bone kind came in , which ( as I wa inform ) , besid a vast quantiti of oil , did afford 500 weight of baleen . the jaw of it stand for a gate in the garden of pitferren . '' -- sibbald ' S fife and kinross . `` myself have agre to tri whether I can master and kill thi sperma - ceti whale , for I could never hear of ani of that sort that wa kill by ani man , such is hi fierc and swift . '' -- richard strafford ' S letter from the bermuda . phil . tran . A . D . 1668 . `` whale in the sea god ' s voic obey . '' -- N . E . primer . `` We saw also abund of larg whale , there be more in those southern sea , as I may say , by a hundr to one ; than we have to the northward of us . '' -- captain cowley ' S voyag round the globe , A . D . 1729 . `` ... and the breath of the whale is frequendi attend with such an insupport smell , as to bring on a disord of the brain . '' -- ulloa ' S south america . `` To fifti chosen sylph of special note , We trust the import charg , the petticoat . oft have we known that seven - fold fenc to fail , tho ' stuf with hoop and arm with rib of whale . '' -- rape OF the lock . `` If we compar land anim in respect to magnitud , with those that take up their abod in the deep , we shall find they will appear contempt in the comparison . the whale is doubtless the largest anim in creation . '' -- goldsmith , nat . hist . `` If you should write a fabl for littl fish , you would make them speak like great wale . '' -- goldsmith TO johnson . `` In the afternoon we saw what wa suppos to be a rock , but it wa found to be a dead whale , which some asiat had kill , and were then tow ashor . they seem to endeavor to conceal themselv behind the whale , in order to avoid be seen by us . '' -- cook ' S voyag . `` the larger whale , they seldom ventur to attack . they stand in so great dread of some of them , that when out at sea they are afraid to mention even their name , and carri dung , lime - stone , junip - wood , and some other articl of the same natur in their boat , in order to terrifi and prevent their too near approach . '' -- uno von troil ' S letter ON bank ' S and soland ' S voyag TO iceland IN 1772 . `` the spermacetti whale found by the nantuckoi , is an activ , fierc anim , and requir vast address and bold in the fishermen . '' -- thoma jefferson ' S whale memori TO the french minist IN 1778 . `` and pray , sir , what in the world is equal to it ? '' -- edmund burk ' S refer IN parliament TO the nantucket whale - fisheri . `` spain -- a great whale strand on the shore of europ . '' -- edmund burk . ( somewher . ) `` A tenth branch of the king ' s ordinari revenu , said to be ground on the consider of hi guard and protect the sea from pirat and robber , is the right to royal fish , which are whale and sturgeon . and these , when either thrown ashor or caught near the coast , are the properti of the king . '' -- blackston . `` soon to the sport of death the crew repair : rodmond uner o ' er hi head suspend the barb steel , and everi turn attend . '' -- falcon ' S shipwreck . `` bright shone the roof , the dome , the spire , and rocket blew self driven , To hang their momentari fire around the vault of heaven . `` So fire with water to compar , the ocean serv on high , Up - spout by a whale in air , To express unwieldi joy . '' -- cowper , ON the queen ' S visit TO london . `` ten or fifteen gallon of blood are thrown out of the heart at a stroke , with immens veloc . '' -- john hunter ' S account OF the dissect OF A whale . ( A small size one . ) `` the aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - work at london bridg , and the water roar in it passag through that pipe is inferior in impetu and veloc to the blood gush from the whale ' s heart . '' -- paley ' S theolog . `` the whale is a mammifer anim without hind feet . '' -- baron cuvier . `` In 40 degre south , we saw spermacetti whale , but did not take ani till the first of may , the sea be then cover with them . '' -- colnett ' S voyag for the purpos OF extend the spermaceti whale fisheri . `` In the free element beneath me swam , flounder and dive , in play , in chace , in battl , fish of everi colour , form , and kind ; which languag can not paint , and marin had never seen ; from dread leviathan To insect million peopl everi wave : gather ' d in shoal immens , like float island , led by mysteri instinct through that wast and trackless region , though on everi side assault by voraci enemi , whale , shark , and monster , arm ' d in front or jaw , with sword , saw , spiral horn , or hook fang . '' -- montgomeri ' S world befor the flood . `` Io ! paean ! Io ! sing . To the finni peopl ' s king . not a mightier whale than thi In the vast atlant is ; not a fatter fish than he , flounder round the polar sea . '' -- charl lamb ' S triumph OF the whale . `` In the year 1690 some person were on a high hill observ the whale spout and sport with each other , when one observ : there -- point to the sea -- is a green pastur where our children ' s grand - children will go for bread . '' -- obe maci ' S histori OF nantucket . `` I built a cottag for susan and myself and made a gateway in the form of a gothic arch , by set up a whale ' s jaw bone . '' -- hawthorn ' S twice told tale . `` she came to bespeak a monument for her first love , who had been kill by a whale in the pacif ocean , no less than forti year ago . '' -- ibid . `` No , sir , ' ti a right whale , '' answer tom ; `` I saw hi sprout ; he threw up a pair of as pretti rainbow as a christian would wish to look at . He ' s a raal oil - butt , that fellow ! '' -- cooper ' S pilot . `` the paper were brought in , and we saw in the berlin gazett that whale had been introduc on the stage there . '' -- eckermann ' S convers with goeth . `` My god ! Mr . chace , what is the matter ? '' I answer , `` we have been stove by a whale . '' -- '' narr OF the shipwreck OF the whale ship essex OF nantucket , which wa attack and final destroy BY A larg sperm whale IN the pacif ocean . '' BY owen chace OF nantucket , first mate OF said vessel . new york , 1821 . `` A marin sat in the shroud one night , the wind wa pipe free ; now bright , now dim , wa the moonlight pale , and the phospher gleam in the wake of the whale , As it flounder in the sea . '' -- elizabeth oak smith . `` the quantiti of line withdrawn from the boat engag in the captur of thi one whale , amount altogeth to 10 , 440 yard or nearli six english mile . ... `` sometim the whale shake it tremend tail in the air , which , crack like a whip , resound to the distanc of three or four mile . '' -- scoresbi . `` mad with the agoni he endur from these fresh attack , the infuri sperm whale roll over and over ; he rear hi enorm head , and with wide expand jaw snap at everyth around him ; he rush at the boat with hi head ; they are propel befor him with vast swift , and sometim utterli destroy . ... It is a matter of great astonish that the consider of the habit of so interest , and , in a commerci point of view , so import an anim ( as the sperm whale ) should have been so entir neglect , or should have excit so littl curios among the numer , and mani of them compet observ , that of late year , must have possess the most abund and the most conveni opportun of wit their habitud . '' -- thoma beal ' S histori OF the sperm whale , 1839 . `` the cachalot `` ( sperm whale ) `` is not onli better arm than the true whale `` ( greenland or right whale ) `` in possess a formid weapon at either extrem of it bodi , but also more frequent display a disposit to employ these weapon offens and in manner at onc so art , bold , and mischiev , as to lead to it be regard as the most danger to attack of all the known speci of the whale tribe . '' -- frederick debel bennett ' S whale voyag round the globe , 1840 . octob 13 . `` there she blow , '' wa sung out from the mast - head . `` where away ? '' demand the captain . `` three point off the lee bow , sir . '' `` rais up your wheel . steadi ! '' `` steadi , sir . '' `` mast - head ahoy ! Do you see that whale now ? '' `` Ay ay , sir ! A shoal of sperm whale ! there she blow ! there she breach ! '' `` sing out ! sing out everi time ! '' `` Ay Ay , sir ! there she blow ! there -- there -- thar she blow -- bow -- bo - o - os ! '' `` how far off ? '' `` two mile and a half . '' `` thunder and lightn ! so near ! call all hand . '' -- J . ross brown ' S etch OF A whale cruiz . 1846 . `` the whale - ship globe , on board of which vessel occur the horrid transact we are about to relat , belong to the island of nantucket . '' -- '' narr OF the globe , '' BY lay and hussey survivor . A . D . 1828 . be onc pursu by a whale which he had wound , he parri the assault for some time with a lanc ; but the furiou monster at length rush on the boat ; himself and comrad onli be preserv by leap into the water when they saw the onset wa inevit . '' -- missionari journal OF tyerman and bennett . `` nantucket itself , '' said Mr . webster , `` is a veri strike and peculiar portion of the nation interest . there is a popul of eight or nine thousand person live here in the sea , ad larg everi year to the nation wealth by the boldest and most persev industri . '' -- report OF daniel webster ' S speech IN the U . S . senat , ON the applic for the erect OF A breakwat AT nantucket . 1828 . `` the whale fell directli over him , and probabl kill him in a moment . '' -- '' the whale and hi captor , OR the whaleman ' S adventur and the whale ' S biographi , gather ON the homeward cruis OF the commodor prebl . '' BY rev . henri T . cheever . `` If you make the least damn bit of nois , '' repli samuel , `` I will send you to hell . '' -- life OF samuel comstock ( the mutin ) , BY hi brother , william comstock . anoth version OF the whale - ship globe narr . `` the voyag of the dutch and english to the northern ocean , in order , if possibl , to discov a passag through it to india , though they fail of their main object , laid - open the haunt of the whale . '' -- mcculloch ' S commerci dictionari . `` these thing are reciproc ; the ball rebound , onli to bound forward again ; for now in lay open the haunt of the whale , the whalemen seem to have indirectli hit upon new clew to that same mystic north - west passag . '' -- from `` someth `` unpublish . `` It is imposs to meet a whale - ship on the ocean without be struck by her near appear . the vessel under short sail , with look - out at the mast - head , eagerli scan the wide expans around them , ha a total differ air from those engag in regular voyag . '' -- current and whale . U . S . EX . EX . `` pedestrian in the vicin of london and elsewher may recollect have seen larg curv bone set upright in the earth , either to form arch over gateway , or entranc to alcov , and they may perhap have been told that these were the rib of whale . '' -- tale OF A whale voyag TO the arctic ocean . `` It wa not till the boat return from the pursuit of these whale , that the white saw their ship in bloodi possess of the savag enrol among the crew . '' -- newspap account OF the take and retak OF the whale - ship hobomack . `` It is gener well known that out of the crew of whale vessel ( american ) few ever return in the ship on board of which they depart . '' -- cruis IN A whale boat . `` suddenli a mighti mass emerg from the water , and shot up perpendicularli into the air . It wa the while . '' -- miriam coffin OR the whale fisherman . `` the whale is harpoon to be sure ; but bethink you , how you would manag a power unbroken colt , with the mere applianc of a rope tie to the root of hi tail . '' -- A chapter ON whale IN rib and truck . `` On one occas I saw two of these monster ( whale ) probabl male and femal , slowli swim , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore `` ( terra del fuego ) , `` over which the beech tree extend it branch . '' -- darwin ' S voyag OF A naturalist . `` ' stern all ! ' exclaim the mate , as upon turn hi head , he saw the distend jaw of a larg sperm whale close to the head of the boat , threaten it with instant destruct ; -- ' stern all , for your live ! ' '' -- wharton the whale killer . `` So be cheeri , my lad , let your heart never fail , while the bold harpoon is strike the whale ! '' -- nantucket song . `` Oh , the rare old whale , mid storm and gale In hi ocean home will be A giant in might , where might is right , and king of the boundless sea . '' -- whale song . chapter 1 loom . call me ishmael . some year ago -- never mind how long precis -- have littl or no money in my purs , and noth particular to interest me on shore , I thought I would sail about a littl and see the wateri part of the world . It is a way I have of drive off the spleen and regul the circul . whenev I find myself grow grim about the mouth ; whenev it is a damp , drizzli novemb in my soul ; whenev I find myself involuntarili paus befor coffin warehous , and bring up the rear of everi funer I meet ; and especi whenev my hypo get such an upper hand of me , that it requir a strong moral principl to prevent me from deliber step into the street , and method knock peopl ' s hat off -- then , I account it high time to get to sea as soon as I can . thi is my substitut for pistol and ball . with a philosoph flourish cato throw himself upon hi sword ; I quietli take to the ship . there is noth surpris in thi . If they but knew it , almost all men in their degre , some time or other , cherish veri nearli the same feel toward the ocean with me . there now is your insular citi of the manhatto , belt round by wharv as indian isl by coral reef -- commerc surround it with her surf . right and left , the street take you waterward . it extrem downtown is the batteri , where that nobl mole is wash by wave , and cool by breez , which a few hour previou were out of sight of land . look at the crowd of water - gazer there . circumambul the citi of a dreami sabbath afternoon . Go from corlear hook to coenti slip , and from thenc , by whitehal , northward . what do you see ? -- post like silent sentinel all around the town , stand thousand upon thousand of mortal men fix in ocean reveri . some lean against the spile ; some seat upon the pier - head ; some look over the bulwark of ship from china ; some high aloft in the rig , as if strive to get a still better seaward peep . but these are all landsmen ; of week day pent up in lath and plaster -- tie to counter , nail to bench , clinch to desk . how then is thi ? are the green field gone ? what do they here ? but look ! here come more crowd , pace straight for the water , and seemingli bound for a dive . strang ! noth will content them but the extremest limit of the land ; loiter under the shadi lee of yonder warehous will not suffic . No . they must get just as nigh the water as they possibl can without fall in . and there they stand -- mile of them -- leagu . inland all , they come from lane and alley , street and avenu -- north , east , south , and west . yet here they all unit . tell me , doe the magnet virtu of the needl of the compass of all those ship attract them thither ? onc more . say you are in the countri ; in some high land of lake . take almost ani path you pleas , and ten to one it carri you down in a dale , and leav you there by a pool in the stream . there is magic in it . let the most absent - mind of men be plung in hi deepest reveri -- stand that man on hi leg , set hi feet a - go , and he will infal lead you to water , if water there be in all that region . should you ever be athirst in the great american desert , tri thi experi , if your caravan happen to be suppli with a metaphys professor . ye , as everi one know , medit and water are wed for ever . but here is an artist . He desir to paint you the dreamiest , shadiest , quietest , most enchant bit of romant landscap in all the valley of the saco . what is the chief element he employ ? there stand hi tree , each with a hollow trunk , as if a hermit and a crucifix were within ; and here sleep hi meadow , and there sleep hi cattl ; and up from yonder cottag goe a sleepi smoke . deep into distant woodland wind a mazi way , reach to overlap spur of mountain bath in their hill - side blue . but though the pictur lie thu tranc , and though thi pine - tree shake down it sigh like leav upon thi shepherd ' s head , yet all were vain , unless the shepherd ' s eye were fix upon the magic stream befor him . Go visit the prairi in june , when for score on score of mile you wade knee - deep among tiger - lili -- what is the one charm want ? -- water -- there is not a drop of water there ! were niagara but a cataract of sand , would you travel your thousand mile to see it ? whi did the poor poet of tennesse , upon suddenli receiv two hand of silver , deliber whether to buy him a coat , which he sadli need , or invest hi money in a pedestrian trip to rockaway beach ? whi is almost everi robust healthi boy with a robust healthi soul in him , at some time or other crazi to go to sea ? whi upon your first voyag as a passeng , did you yourself feel such a mystic vibrat , when first told that you and your ship were now out of sight of land ? whi did the old persian hold the sea holi ? whi did the greek give it a separ deiti , and own brother of jove ? sure all thi is not without mean . and still deeper the mean of that stori of narcissu , who becaus he could not grasp the torment , mild imag he saw in the fountain , plung into it and wa drown . but that same imag , we ourselv see in all river and ocean . It is the imag of the ungrasp phantom of life ; and thi is the key to it all . now , when I say that I am in the habit of go to sea whenev I begin to grow hazi about the eye , and begin to be over consciou of my lung , I do not mean to have it infer that I ever go to sea as a passeng . for to go as a passeng you must need have a purs , and a purs is but a rag unless you have someth in it . besid , passeng get sea - sick -- grow quarrelsom -- don ' t sleep of night -- do not enjoy themselv much , as a gener thing ; -- no , I never go as a passeng ; nor , though I am someth of a salt , do I ever go to sea as a commodor , or a captain , or a cook . I abandon the glori and distinct of such offic to those who like them . for my part , I abomin all honour respect toil , trial , and tribul of everi kind whatsoev . It is quit as much as I can do to take care of myself , without take care of ship , barqu , brig , schooner , and what not . and as for go as cook , -- though I confess there is consider glori in that , a cook be a sort of offic on ship - board -- yet , somehow , I never fanci broil fowl ; -- though onc broil , judici butter , and judgmat salt and pepper , there is no one who will speak more respect , not to say reverenti , of a broil fowl than I will . It is out of the idolatr dote of the old egyptian upon broil ibi and roast river hors , that you see the mummi of those creatur in their huge bake - hous the pyramid . No , when I go to sea , I go as a simpl sailor , right befor the mast , plumb down into the forecastl , aloft there to the royal mast - head . true , they rather order me about some , and make me jump from spar to spar , like a grasshopp in a may meadow . and at first , thi sort of thing is unpleas enough . It touch one ' s sens of honour , particularli if you come of an old establish famili in the land , the van renssela , or randolph , or hardicanut . and more than all , if just previou to put your hand into the tar - pot , you have been lord it as a countri schoolmast , make the tallest boy stand in awe of you . the transit is a keen one , I assur you , from a schoolmast to a sailor , and requir a strong decoct of seneca and the stoic to enabl you to grin and bear it . but even thi wear off in time . what of it , if some old hunk of a sea - captain order me to get a broom and sweep down the deck ? what doe that indign amount to , weigh , I mean , in the scale of the new testament ? Do you think the archangel gabriel think anyth the less of me , becaus I promptli and respect obey that old hunk in that particular instanc ? who ain ' t a slave ? tell me that . well , then , howev the old sea - captain may order me about -- howev they may thump and punch me about , I have the satisfact of know that it is all right ; that everybodi els is one way or other serv in much the same way -- either in a physic or metaphys point of view , that is ; and so the univers thump is pass round , and all hand should rub each other ' s shoulder - blade , and be content . again , I alway go to sea as a sailor , becaus they make a point of pay me for my troubl , wherea they never pay passeng a singl penni that I ever heard of . On the contrari , passeng themselv must pay . and there is all the differ in the world between pay and be paid . the act of pay is perhap the most uncomfort inflict that the two orchard thiev entail upon us . but be paid , -- what will compar with it ? the urban activ with which a man receiv money is realli marvel , consid that we so earnestli believ money to be the root of all earthli ill , and that on no account can a moni man enter heaven . Ah ! how cheer we consign ourselv to perdit ! final , I alway go to sea as a sailor , becaus of the wholesom exercis and pure air of the fore - castl deck . for as in thi world , head wind are far more preval than wind from astern ( that is , if you never violat the pythagorean maxim ) , so for the most part the commodor on the quarter - deck get hi atmospher at second hand from the sailor on the forecastl . He think he breath it first ; but not so . In much the same way do the commonalti lead their leader in mani other thing , at the same time that the leader littl suspect it . but wherefor it wa that after have repeatedli smelt the sea as a merchant sailor , I should now take it into my head to go on a whale voyag ; thi the invis polic offic of the fate , who ha the constant surveil of me , and secretli dog me , and influenc me in some unaccount way -- he can better answer than ani one els . and , doubtless , my go on thi whale voyag , form part of the grand programm of provid that wa drawn up a long time ago . It came in as a sort of brief interlud and solo between more extens perform . I take it that thi part of the bill must have run someth like thi : `` grand contest elect for the presid OF the unit state . `` whale voyag BY one ishmael . `` bloodi battl IN affghanistan . '' though I can not tell whi it wa exactli that those stage manag , the fate , put me down for thi shabbi part of a whale voyag , when other were set down for magnific part in high tragedi , and short and easi part in genteel comedi , and jolli part in farc -- though I can not tell whi thi wa exactli ; yet , now that I recal all the circumst , I think I can see a littl into the spring and motiv which be cunningli present to me under variou disguis , induc me to set about perform the part I did , besid cajol me into the delus that it wa a choic result from my own unbias freewil and discrimin judgment . chief among these motiv wa the overwhelm idea of the great whale himself . such a portent and mysteri monster rous all my curios . then the wild and distant sea where he roll hi island bulk ; the undeliver , nameless peril of the whale ; these , with all the attend marvel of a thousand patagonian sight and sound , help to sway me to my wish . with other men , perhap , such thing would not have been induc ; but as for me , I am torment with an everlast itch for thing remot . I love to sail forbidden sea , and land on barbar coast . not ignor what is good , I am quick to perceiv a horror , and could still be social with it -- would they let me -- sinc it is but well to be on friendli term with all the inmat of the place one lodg in . By reason of these thing , then , the whale voyag wa welcom ; the great flood - gate of the wonder - world swung open , and in the wild conceit that sway me to my purpos , two and two there float into my inmost soul , endless process of the whale , and , mid most of them all , one grand hood phantom , like a snow hill in the air . chapter 2 the carpet - bag . I stuf a shirt or two into my old carpet - bag , tuck it under my arm , and start for cape horn and the pacif . quit the good citi of old manhatto , I duli arriv in new bedford . It wa a saturday night in decemb . much wa I disappoint upon learn that the littl packet for nantucket had alreadi sail , and that no way of reach that place would offer , till the follow monday . As most young candid for the pain and penalti of whale stop at thi same new bedford , thenc to embark on their voyag , it may as well be relat that I , for one , had no idea of so do . for my mind wa made up to sail in no other than a nantucket craft , becaus there wa a fine , boister someth about everyth connect with that famou old island , which amazingli pleas me . besid though new bedford ha of late been gradual monopolis the busi of whale , and though in thi matter poor old nantucket is now much behind her , yet nantucket wa her great origin -- the tyre of thi carthag ; -- the place where the first dead american whale wa strand . where els but from nantucket did those aborigin whalemen , the red - men , first salli out in cano to give chase to the leviathan ? and where but from nantucket , too , did that first adventur littl sloop put forth , partli laden with import cobbleston -- so goe the stori -- to throw at the whale , in order to discov when they were nigh enough to risk a harpoon from the bowsprit ? now have a night , a day , and still anoth night follow befor me in new bedford , ere I could embark for my destin port , it becam a matter of concern where I wa to eat and sleep meanwhil . It wa a veri dubiou - look , nay , a veri dark and dismal night , bitingli cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . with anxiou grapnel I had sound my pocket , and onli brought up a few piec of silver , -- So , wherev you go , ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middl of a dreari street shoulder my bag , and compar the gloom toward the north with the dark toward the south -- wherev in your wisdom you may conclud to lodg for the night , my dear ishmael , be sure to inquir the price , and don ' t be too particular . with halt step I pace the street , and pass the sign of `` the cross harpoon `` -- but it look too expens and jolli there . further on , from the bright red window of the `` sword - fish inn , '' there came such fervent ray , that it seem to have melt the pack snow and ice from befor the hous , for everywher els the congeal frost lay ten inch thick in a hard , asphalt pavement , -- rather weari for me , when I struck my foot against the flinti project , becaus from hard , remorseless servic the sole of my boot were in a most miser plight . too expens and jolli , again thought I , paus one moment to watch the broad glare in the street , and hear the sound of the tinkl glass within . but go on , ishmael , said I at last ; don ' t you hear ? get away from befor the door ; your patch boot are stop the way . So on I went . I now by instinct follow the street that took me waterward , for there , doubtless , were the cheapest , if not the cheeriest inn . such dreari street ! block of black , not hous , on either hand , and here and there a candl , like a candl move about in a tomb . At thi hour of the night , of the last day of the week , that quarter of the town prove all but desert . but present I came to a smoki light proceed from a low , wide build , the door of which stood invitingli open . It had a careless look , as if it were meant for the use of the public ; so , enter , the first thing I did wa to stumbl over an ash - box in the porch . Ha ! thought I , ha , as the fli particl almost choke me , are these ash from that destroy citi , gomorrah ? but `` the cross harpoon , '' and `` the sword - fish ? '' -- thi , then must need be the sign of `` the trap . '' howev , I pick myself up and hear a loud voic within , push on and open a second , interior door . It seem the great black parliament sit in tophet . A hundr black face turn round in their row to peer ; and beyond , a black angel of doom wa beat a book in a pulpit . It wa a negro church ; and the preacher ' s text wa about the black of dark , and the weep and wail and teeth - gnash there . Ha , ishmael , mutter I , back out , wretch entertain at the sign of ' the trap ! ' move on , I at last came to a dim sort of light not far from the dock , and heard a forlorn creak in the air ; and look up , saw a swing sign over the door with a white paint upon it , faintli repres a tall straight jet of misti spray , and these word underneath -- '' the spouter inn : -- peter coffin . '' coffin ? -- spouter ? -- rather omin in that particular connexion , thought I . but it is a common name in nantucket , they say , and I suppos thi peter here is an emigr from there . As the light look so dim , and the place , for the time , look quiet enough , and the dilapid littl wooden hous itself look as if it might have been cart here from the ruin of some burnt district , and as the swing sign had a poverti - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here wa the veri spot for cheap lodg , and the best of pea coffe . It wa a queer sort of place -- a gabl - end old hous , one side palsi as it were , and lean over sadli . It stood on a sharp bleak corner , where that tempestu wind euroclydon kept up a wors howl than ever it did about poor paul ' s toss craft . euroclydon , nevertheless , is a mighti pleasant zephyr to ani one in - door , with hi feet on the hob quietli toast for bed . `` In judg of that tempestu wind call euroclydon , '' say an old writer -- of whose work I possess the onli copi extant -- '' it maketh a marvel differ , whether thou lookest out at it from a glass window where the frost is all on the outsid , or whether thou observest it from that sashless window , where the frost is on both side , and of which the wight death is the onli glazier . '' true enough , thought I , as thi passag occur to my mind -- old black - letter , thou reasonest well . ye , these eye are window , and thi bodi of mine is the hous . what a piti they didn ' t stop up the chink and the cranni though , and thrust in a littl lint here and there . but it ' s too late to make ani improv now . the univers is finish ; the copeston is on , and the chip were cart off a million year ago . poor lazaru there , chatter hi teeth against the curbston for hi pillow , and shake off hi tatter with hi shiver , he might plug up both ear with rag , and put a corn - cob into hi mouth , and yet that would not keep out the tempestu euroclydon . euroclydon ! say old dive , in hi red silken wrapper -- ( he had a redder one afterward ) pooh , pooh ! what a fine frosti night ; how orion glitter ; what northern light ! let them talk of their orient summer clime of everlast conservatori ; give me the privileg of make my own summer with my own coal . but what think lazaru ? can he warm hi blue hand by hold them up to the grand northern light ? would not lazaru rather be in sumatra than here ? would he not far rather lay him down lengthwis along the line of the equat ; yea , ye god ! go down to the fieri pit itself , in order to keep out thi frost ? now , that lazaru should lie strand there on the curbston befor the door of dive , thi is more wonder than that an iceberg should be moor to one of the molucca . yet dive himself , he too live like a czar in an ice palac made of frozen sigh , and be a presid of a temper societi , he onli drink the tepid tear of orphan . but no more of thi blubber now , we are go a - whale , and there is plenti of that yet to come . let us scrape the ice from our frost feet , and see what sort of a place thi `` spouter `` may be . chapter 3 the spouter - inn . enter that gabl - end spouter - inn , you found yourself in a wide , low , straggl entri with old - fashion wainscot , remind one of the bulwark of some condemn old craft . On one side hung a veri larg oilpaint so thoroughli besmok , and everi way defac , that in the unequ crosslight by which you view it , it wa onli by dilig studi and a seri of systemat visit to it , and care inquiri of the neighbor , that you could ani way arriv at an understand of it purpos . such unaccount mass of shade and shadow , that at first you almost thought some ambiti young artist , in the time of the new england hag , had endeavor to delin chao bewitch . but by dint of much and earnest contempl , and oft repeat ponder , and especi by throw open the littl window toward the back of the entri , you at last come to the conclus that such an idea , howev wild , might not be altogeth unwarr . but what most puzzl and confound you wa a long , limber , portent , black mass of someth hover in the centr of the pictur over three blue , dim , perpendicular line float in a nameless yeast . A boggi , soggi , squitchi pictur truli , enough to drive a nervou man distract . yet wa there a sort of indefinit , half - attain , unimagin sublim about it that fairli froze you to it , till you involuntarili took an oath with yourself to find out what that marvel paint meant . ever and anon a bright , but , ala , decept idea would dart you through . -- It ' s the black sea in a midnight gale . -- It ' s the unnatur combat of the four primal element . -- It ' s a blast heath . -- It ' s a hyperborean winter scene . -- It ' s the break - up of the icebound stream of time . but at last all these fanci yield to that one portent someth in the pictur ' s midst . that onc found out , and all the rest were plain . but stop ; doe it not bear a faint resembl to a gigant fish ? even the great leviathan himself ? In fact , the artist ' s design seem thi : a final theori of my own , partli base upon the aggreg opinion of mani age person with whom I convers upon the subject . the pictur repres a cape - horner in a great hurrican ; the half - founder ship welter there with it three dismantl mast alon visibl ; and an exasper whale , purpos to spring clean over the craft , is in the enorm act of impal himself upon the three mast - head . the opposit wall of thi entri wa hung all over with a heathenish array of monstrou club and spear . some were thickli set with glitter teeth resembl ivori saw ; other were tuft with knot of human hair ; and one wa sickl - shape , with a vast handl sweep round like the segment made in the new - mown grass by a long - arm mower . you shudder as you gaze , and wonder what monstrou cannib and savag could ever have gone a death - harvest with such a hack , horrifi implement . mix with these were rusti old whale lanc and harpoon all broken and deform . some were stori weapon . with thi onc long lanc , now wildli elbow , fifti year ago did nathan swain kill fifteen whale between a sunris and a sunset . and that harpoon -- so like a corkscrew now -- wa flung in javan sea , and run away with by a whale , year afterward slain off the cape of blanco . the origin iron enter nigh the tail , and , like a restless needl sojourn in the bodi of a man , travel full forti feet , and at last wa found imbed in the hump . cross thi duski entri , and on through yon low - arch way -- cut through what in old time must have been a great central chimney with fireplac all round -- you enter the public room . A still duskier place is thi , with such low ponder beam abov , and such old wrinkl plank beneath , that you would almost fanci you trod some old craft ' s cockpit , especi of such a howl night , when thi corner - anchor old ark rock so furious . On one side stood a long , low , shelf - like tabl cover with crack glass case , fill with dusti rariti gather from thi wide world ' s remotest nook . project from the further angl of the room stand a dark - look den -- the bar -- a rude attempt at a right whale ' s head . Be that how it may , there stand the vast arch bone of the whale ' s jaw , so wide , a coach might almost drive beneath it . within are shabbi shelv , rang round with old decant , bottl , flask ; and in those jaw of swift destruct , like anoth curs jonah ( by which name inde they call him ) , bustl a littl wither old man , who , for their money , dearli sell the sailor delirium and death . abomin are the tumbler into which he pour hi poison . though true cylind without -- within , the villan green goggl glass deceit taper downward to a cheat bottom . parallel meridian rude peck into the glass , surround these footpad ' goblet . fill to thi mark , and your charg is but a penni ; to thi a penni more ; and so on to the full glass -- the cape horn measur , which you may gulp down for a shill . upon enter the place I found a number of young seamen gather about a tabl , examin by a dim light diver specimen of skrimshand . I sought the landlord , and tell him I desir to be accommod with a room , receiv for answer that hi hous wa full -- not a bed unoccupi . `` but avast , '' he ad , tap hi forehead , `` you haint no object to share a harpoon ' s blanket , have ye ? I s ' pose you are goin ' a - whalin ' , so you ' d better get use to that sort of thing . '' I told him that I never like to sleep two in a bed ; that if I should ever do so , it would depend upon who the harpoon might be , and that if he ( the landlord ) realli had no other place for me , and the harpoon wa not decidedli objection , whi rather than wander further about a strang town on so bitter a night , I would put up with the half of ani decent man ' s blanket . `` I thought so . all right ; take a seat . supper ? -- you want supper ? supper ' ll be readi directli . '' I sat down on an old wooden settl , carv all over like a bench on the batteri . At one end a rumin tar wa still further adorn it with hi jack - knife , stoop over and dilig work away at the space between hi leg . He wa tri hi hand at a ship under full sail , but he didn ' t make much headway , I thought . At last some four or five of us were summon to our meal in an adjoin room . It wa cold as iceland -- no fire at all -- the landlord said he couldn ' t afford it . noth but two dismal tallow candl , each in a wind sheet . We were fain to button up our monkey jacket , and hold to our lip cup of scald tea with our half frozen finger . but the fare wa of the most substanti kind -- not onli meat and potato , but dumpl ; good heaven ! dumpl for supper ! one young fellow in a green box coat , address himself to these dumpl in a most dire manner . `` My boy , '' said the landlord , `` you ' ll have the nightmar to a dead sartainti . '' `` landlord , '' I whisper , `` that aint the harpoon is it ? '' `` Oh , no , '' said he , look a sort of diabol funni , `` the harpoon is a dark complexion chap . He never eat dumpl , he don ' t -- he eat noth but steak , and he like ' em rare . '' `` the devil he doe , '' say I . `` where is that harpoon ? Is he here ? '' `` He ' ll be here afor long , '' wa the answer . I could not help it , but I began to feel suspici of thi `` dark complexion `` harpoon . At ani rate , I made up my mind that if it so turn out that we should sleep togeth , he must undress and get into bed befor I did . supper over , the compani went back to the bar - room , when , know not what els to do with myself , I resolv to spend the rest of the even as a looker on . present a riot nois wa heard without . start up , the landlord cri , `` that ' s the grampu ' s crew . I seed her report in the of thi morn ; a three year ' voyag , and a full ship . hurrah , boy ; now we ' ll have the latest news from the feege . '' A tramp of sea boot wa heard in the entri ; the door wa flung open , and in roll a wild set of marin enough . envelop in their shaggi watch coat , and with their head muffl in woollen comfort , all bedarn and rag , and their beard stiff with icicl , they seem an erupt of bear from labrador . they had just land from their boat , and thi wa the first hous they enter . No wonder , then , that they made a straight wake for the whale ' s mouth -- the bar -- when the wrinkl littl old jonah , there offici , soon pour them out brimmer all round . one complain of a bad cold in hi head , upon which jonah mix him a pitch - like potion of gin and molass , which he swore wa a sovereign cure for all cold and catarrh whatsoev , never mind of how long stand , or whether caught off the coast of labrador , or on the weather side of an ice - island . the liquor soon mount into their head , as it gener doe even with the arrantest toper newli land from sea , and they began caper about most obstreper . I observ , howev , that one of them held somewhat aloof , and though he seem desir not to spoil the hilar of hi shipmat by hi own sober face , yet upon the whole he refrain from make as much nois as the rest . thi man interest me at onc ; and sinc the sea - god had ordain that he should soon becom my shipmat ( though but a sleep - partner one , so far as thi narr is concern ) , I will here ventur upon a littl descript of him . He stood full six feet in height , with nobl shoulder , and a chest like a coffer - dam . I have seldom seen such brawn in a man . hi face wa deepli brown and burnt , make hi white teeth dazzl by the contrast ; while in the deep shadow of hi eye float some reminisc that did not seem to give him much joy . hi voic at onc announc that he wa a southern , and from hi fine statur , I thought he must be one of those tall mountain from the alleghanian ridg in virginia . when the revelri of hi companion had mount to it height , thi man slip away unobserv , and I saw no more of him till he becam my comrad on the sea . In a few minut , howev , he wa miss by hi shipmat , and be , it seem , for some reason a huge favourit with them , they rais a cri of `` bulkington ! bulkington ! where ' s bulkington ? '' and dart out of the hous in pursuit of him . It wa now about nine o ' clock , and the room seem almost supernatur quiet after these orgi , I began to congratul myself upon a littl plan that had occur to me just previou to the entranc of the seamen . No man prefer to sleep two in a bed . In fact , you would a good deal rather not sleep with your own brother . I don ' t know how it is , but peopl like to be privat when they are sleep . and when it come to sleep with an unknown stranger , in a strang inn , in a strang town , and that stranger a harpoon , then your object indefinit multipli . nor wa there ani earthli reason whi I as a sailor should sleep two in a bed , more than anybodi els ; for sailor no more sleep two in a bed at sea , than bachelor king do ashor . To be sure they all sleep togeth in one apart , but you have your own hammock , and cover yourself with your own blanket , and sleep in your own skin . the more I ponder over thi harpoon , the more I abomin the thought of sleep with him . It wa fair to presum that be a harpoon , hi linen or woollen , as the case might be , would not be of the tidiest , certainli none of the finest . I began to twitch all over . besid , it wa get late , and my decent harpoon ought to be home and go bedward . suppos now , he should tumbl in upon me at midnight -- how could I tell from what vile hole he had been come ? `` landlord ! I ' ve chang my mind about that harpoon . -- I shan ' t sleep with him . I ' ll tri the bench here . '' `` just as you pleas ; I ' m sorri I cant spare ye a tablecloth for a mattress , and it ' s a plaguy rough board here `` -- feel of the knot and notch . `` but wait a bit , skrimshand ; I ' ve got a carpent ' s plane there in the bar -- wait , I say , and I ' ll make ye snug enough . '' So say he procur the plane ; and with hi old silk handkerchief first dust the bench , vigor set to plane away at my bed , the while grin like an ape . the shave flew right and left ; till at last the plane - iron came bump against an indestruct knot . the landlord wa near sprain hi wrist , and I told him for heaven ' s sake to quit -- the bed wa soft enough to suit me , and I did not know how all the plane in the world could make eider down of a pine plank . So gather up the shave with anoth grin , and throw them into the great stove in the middl of the room , he went about hi busi , and left me in a brown studi . I now took the measur of the bench , and found that it wa a foot too short ; but that could be mend with a chair . but it wa a foot too narrow , and the other bench in the room wa about four inch higher than the plane one -- so there wa no yoke them . I then place the first bench lengthwis along the onli clear space against the wall , leav a littl interv between , for my back to settl down in . but I soon found that there came such a draught of cold air over me from under the sill of the window , that thi plan would never do at all , especi as anoth current from the ricketi door met the one from the window , and both togeth form a seri of small whirlwind in the immedi vicin of the spot where I had thought to spend the night . the devil fetch that harpoon , thought I , but stop , couldn ' t I steal a march on him -- bolt hi door insid , and jump into hi bed , not to be waken by the most violent knock ? It seem no bad idea ; but upon second thought I dismiss it . for who could tell but what the next morn , so soon as I pop out of the room , the harpoon might be stand in the entri , all readi to knock me down ! still , look round me again , and see no possibl chanc of spend a suffer night unless in some other person ' s bed , I began to think that after all I might be cherish unwarrant prejudic against thi unknown harpoon . think I , I ' ll wait awhil ; he must be drop in befor long . I ' ll have a good look at him then , and perhap we may becom jolli good bedfellow after all -- there ' s no tell . but though the other boarder kept come in by one , two , and three , and go to bed , yet no sign of my harpoon . `` landlord ! said I , `` what sort of a chap is he -- doe he alway keep such late hour ? '' It wa now hard upon twelv o ' clock . the landlord chuckl again with hi lean chuckl , and seem to be mightili tickl at someth beyond my comprehens . `` No , '' he answer , `` gener he ' s an earli bird -- airley to bed and airley to rise -- ye , he ' s the bird what catch the worm . but to - night he went out a peddl , you see , and I don ' t see what on airth keep him so late , unless , may be , he can ' t sell hi head . '' `` can ' t sell hi head ? -- what sort of a bamboozingli stori is thi you are tell me ? '' get into a tower rage . `` Do you pretend to say , landlord , that thi harpoon is actual engag thi bless saturday night , or rather sunday morn , in peddl hi head around thi town ? '' `` that ' s precis it , '' said the landlord , `` and I told him he couldn ' t sell it here , the market ' s overstock . '' `` with what ? '' shout I . `` with head to be sure ; ain ' t there too mani head in the world ? '' `` I tell you what it is , landlord , '' said I quit calmli , `` you ' d better stop spin that yarn to me -- I ' m not green . '' `` may be not , '' take out a stick and whittl a toothpick , `` but I rayther guess you ' ll be done brown if that ere harpoon hear you a slanderin ' hi head . '' `` I ' ll break it for him , '' said I , now fli into a passion again at thi unaccount farrago of the landlord ' s . `` It ' s broke a ' readi , '' said he . `` broke , '' said I -- '' broke , do you mean ? '' `` sartain , and that ' s the veri reason he can ' t sell it , I guess . '' `` landlord , '' said I , go up to him as cool as Mt . hecla in a snow - storm -- '' landlord , stop whittl . you and I must understand one anoth , and that too without delay . I come to your hous and want a bed ; you tell me you can onli give me half a one ; that the other half belong to a certain harpoon . and about thi harpoon , whom I have not yet seen , you persist in tell me the most mystifi and exasper stori tend to beget in me an uncomfort feel toward the man whom you design for my bedfellow -- a sort of connexion , landlord , which is an intim and confidenti one in the highest degre . I now demand of you to speak out and tell me who and what thi harpoon is , and whether I shall be in all respect safe to spend the night with him . and in the first place , you will be so good as to unsay that stori about sell hi head , which if true I take to be good evid that thi harpoon is stark mad , and I ' ve no idea of sleep with a madman ; and you , sir , you I mean , landlord , you , sir , by tri to induc me to do so knowingli , would therebi render yourself liabl to a crimin prosecut . '' `` wall , '' said the landlord , fetch a long breath , `` that ' s a purti long sarmon for a chap that rip a littl now and then . but be easi , be easi , thi here harpoon I have been tellin ' you of ha just arriv from the south sea , where he bought up a lot of ' balm new zealand head ( great curio , you know ) , and he ' s sold all on ' em but one , and that one he ' s tri to sell to - night , caus to - morrow ' s sunday , and it would not do to be sellin ' human head about the street when folk is goin ' to church . He want to , last sunday , but I stop him just as he wa goin ' out of the door with four head strung on a string , for all the airth like a string of inion . '' thi account clear up the otherwis unaccount mysteri , and show that the landlord , after all , had had no idea of fool me -- but at the same time what could I think of a harpoon who stay out of a saturday night clean into the holi sabbath , engag in such a cannib busi as sell the head of dead idol ? `` depend upon it , landlord , that harpoon is a danger man . '' `` He pay reg ' lar , '' wa the rejoind . `` but come , it ' s get dread late , you had better be turn fluke -- it ' s a nice bed ; sal and me slept in that ere bed the night we were splice . there ' s plenti of room for two to kick about in that bed ; it ' s an almighti big bed that . whi , afor we give it up , sal use to put our sam and littl johnni in the foot of it . but I got a dream and sprawl about one night , and somehow , sam got pitch on the floor , and came near break hi arm . arter that , sal said it wouldn ' t do . come along here , I ' ll give ye a glim in a jiffi ; '' and so say he light a candl and held it toward me , offer to lead the way . but I stood irresolut ; when look at a clock in the corner , he exclaim `` I vum it ' s sunday -- you won ' t see that harpoon to - night ; he ' s come to anchor somewher -- come along then ; DO come ; won ' T ye come ? '' I consid the matter a moment , and then up stair we went , and I wa usher into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnish , sure enough , with a prodigi bed , almost big enough inde for ani four harpoon to sleep abreast . `` there , '' said the landlord , place the candl on a crazi old sea chest that did doubl duti as a wash - stand and centr tabl ; `` there , make yourself comfort now , and good night to ye . '' I turn round from eye the bed , but he had disappear . fold back the counterpan , I stoop over the bed . though none of the most eleg , it yet stood the scrutini toler well . I then glanc round the room ; and besid the bedstead and centr tabl , could see no other furnitur belong to the place , but a rude shelf , the four wall , and a paper fireboard repres a man strike a whale . Of thing not properli belong to the room , there wa a hammock lash up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a larg seaman ' s bag , contain the harpoon ' s wardrob , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . likewis , there wa a parcel of outlandish bone fish hook on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon stand at the head of the bed . but what is thi on the chest ? I took it up , and held it close to the light , and felt it , and smelt it , and tri everi way possibl to arriv at some satisfactori conclus concern it . I can compar it to noth but a larg door mat , ornament at the edg with littl tinkl tag someth like the stain porcupin quill round an indian moccasin . there wa a hole or slit in the middl of thi mat , as you see the same in south american poncho . but could it be possibl that ani sober harpoon would get into a door mat , and parad the street of ani christian town in that sort of guis ? I put it on , to tri it , and it weigh me down like a hamper , be uncommonli shaggi and thick , and I thought a littl damp , as though thi mysteri harpoon had been wear it of a raini day . I went up in it to a bit of glass stuck against the wall , and I never saw such a sight in my life . I tore myself out of it in such a hurri that I gave myself a kink in the neck . I sat down on the side of the bed , and commenc think about thi head - peddl harpoon , and hi door mat . after think some time on the bed - side , I got up and took off my monkey jacket , and then stood in the middl of the room think . I then took off my coat , and thought a littl more in my shirt sleev . but begin to feel veri cold now , half undress as I wa , and rememb what the landlord said about the harpoon ' s not come home at all that night , it be so veri late , I made no more ado , but jump out of my pantaloon and boot , and then blow out the light tumbl into bed , and commend myself to the care of heaven . whether that mattress wa stuf with corn - cob or broken crockeri , there is no tell , but I roll about a good deal , and could not sleep for a long time . At last I slid off into a light doze , and had pretti nearli made a good of toward the land of nod , when I heard a heavi footfal in the passag , and saw a glimmer of light come into the room from under the door . lord save me , think I , that must be the harpoon , the infern head - peddler . but I lay perfectli still , and resolv not to say a word till spoken to . hold a light in one hand , and that ident new zealand head in the other , the stranger enter the room , and without look toward the bed , place hi candl a good way off from me on the floor in one corner , and then began work away at the knot cord of the larg bag I befor spoke of as be in the room . I wa all eager to see hi face , but he kept it avert for some time while employ in unlac the bag ' s mouth . thi accomplish , howev , he turn round -- when , good heaven ! what a sight ! such a face ! It wa of a dark , purplish , yellow colour , here and there stuck over with larg blackish look squar . ye , it ' s just as I thought , he ' s a terribl bedfellow ; he ' s been in a fight , got dread cut , and here he is , just from the surgeon . but at that moment he chanc to turn hi face so toward the light , that I plainli saw they could not be stick - plaster at all , those black squar on hi cheek . they were stain of some sort or other . At first I knew not what to make of thi ; but soon an inkl of the truth occur to me . I rememb a stori of a white man -- a whaleman too -- who , fall among the cannib , had been tattoo by them . I conclud that thi harpoon , in the cours of hi distant voyag , must have met with a similar adventur . and what is it , thought I , after all ! It ' s onli hi outsid ; a man can be honest in ani sort of skin . but then , what to make of hi unearthli complexion , that part of it , I mean , lie round about , and complet independ of the squar of tattoo . To be sure , it might be noth but a good coat of tropic tan ; but I never heard of a hot sun ' s tan a white man into a purplish yellow one . howev , I had never been in the south sea ; and perhap the sun there produc these extraordinari effect upon the skin . now , while all these idea were pass through me like lightn , thi harpoon never notic me at all . but , after some difficulti have open hi bag , he commenc fumbl in it , and present pull out a sort of tomahawk , and a seal - skin wallet with the hair on . place these on the old chest in the middl of the room , he then took the new zealand head -- a ghastli thing enough -- and cram it down into the bag . He now took off hi hat -- a new beaver hat -- when I came nigh sing out with fresh surpris . there wa no hair on hi head -- none to speak of at least -- noth but a small scalp - knot twist up on hi forehead . hi bald purplish head now look for all the world like a mildew skull . had not the stranger stood between me and the door , I would have bolt out of it quicker than ever I bolt a dinner . even as it wa , I thought someth of slip out of the window , but it wa the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of thi head - peddl purpl rascal altogeth pass my comprehens . ignor is the parent of fear , and be complet nonpluss and confound about the stranger , I confess I wa now as much afraid of him as if it wa the devil himself who had thu broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I wa so afraid of him that I wa not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactori answer concern what seem inexplic in him . meanwhil , he continu the busi of undress , and at last show hi chest and arm . As I live , these cover part of him were checker with the same squar as hi face ; hi back , too , wa all over the same dark squar ; he seem to have been in a thirti year ' war , and just escap from it with a stick - plaster shirt . still more , hi veri leg were mark , as if a parcel of dark green frog were run up the trunk of young palm . It wa now quit plain that he must be some abomin savag or other ship aboard of a whaleman in the south sea , and so land in thi christian countri . I quak to think of it . A peddler of head too -- perhap the head of hi own brother . He might take a fanci to mine -- heaven ! look at that tomahawk ! but there wa no time for shudder , for now the savag went about someth that complet fascin my attent , and convinc me that he must inde be a heathen . go to hi heavi grego , or wrapal , or dreadnaught , which he had previous hung on a chair , he fumbl in the pocket , and produc at length a curiou littl deform imag with a hunch on it back , and exactli the colour of a three day ' old congo babi . rememb the embalm head , at first I almost thought that thi black manikin wa a real babi preserv in some similar manner . but see that it wa not at all limber , and that it glisten a good deal like polish eboni , I conclud that it must be noth but a wooden idol , which inde it prove to be . for now the savag goe up to the empti fire - place , and remov the paper fire - board , set up thi littl hunch - back imag , like a tenpin , between the andiron . the chimney jamb and all the brick insid were veri sooti , so that I thought thi fire - place made a veri appropri littl shrine or chapel for hi congo idol . I now screw my eye hard toward the half hidden imag , feel but ill at eas meantim -- to see what wa next to follow . first he take about a doubl hand of shave out of hi grego pocket , and place them care befor the idol ; then lay a bit of ship biscuit on top and appli the flame from the lamp , he kindl the shave into a sacrifici blaze . present , after mani hasti snatch into the fire , and still hastier withdraw of hi finger ( wherebi he seem to be scorch them badli ) , he at last succeed in draw out the biscuit ; then blow off the heat and ash a littl , he made a polit offer of it to the littl negro . but the littl devil did not seem to fanci such dri sort of fare at all ; he never move hi lip . all these strang antic were accompani by still stranger guttur nois from the devote , who seem to be pray in a sing - song or els sing some pagan psalmodi or other , dure which hi face twitch about in the most unnatur manner . At last extinguish the fire , he took the idol up veri unceremoni , and bag it again in hi grego pocket as carelessli as if he were a sportsman bag a dead woodcock . all these queer proceed increas my uncomfort , and see him now exhibit strong symptom of conclud hi busi oper , and jump into bed with me , I thought it wa high time , now or never , befor the light wa put out , to break the spell in which I had so long been bound . but the interv I spent in deliber what to say , wa a fatal one . take up hi tomahawk from the tabl , he examin the head of it for an instant , and then hold it to the light , with hi mouth at the handl , he puf out great cloud of tobacco smoke . the next moment the light wa extinguish , and thi wild cannib , tomahawk between hi teeth , sprang into bed with me . I sang out , I could not help it now ; and give a sudden grunt of astonish he began feel me . stammer out someth , I knew not what , I roll away from him against the wall , and then conjur him , whoever or whatev he might be , to keep quiet , and let me get up and light the lamp again . but hi guttur respons satisfi me at onc that he but ill comprehend my mean . `` who - e debel you ? '' -- he at last said -- '' you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e . '' and so say the light tomahawk began flourish about me in the dark . `` landlord , for god ' s sake , peter coffin ! '' shout I . `` landlord ! watch ! coffin ! angel ! save me ! '' `` speak - e ! tell - ee me who - ee be , or dam - me , I kill - e ! '' again growl the cannib , while hi horrid flourish of the tomahawk scatter the hot tobacco ash about me till I thought my linen would get on fire . but thank heaven , at that moment the landlord came into the room light in hand , and leap from the bed I ran up to him . `` don ' t be afraid now , '' said he , grin again , `` queequeg here wouldn ' t harm a hair of your head . '' `` stop your grin , '' shout I , `` and whi didn ' t you tell me that that infern harpoon wa a cannib ? '' `` I thought ye know ' d it ; -- didn ' t I tell ye , he wa a peddlin ' head around town ? -- but turn fluke again and go to sleep . queequeg , look here -- you sabbe me , I sabbe -- you thi man sleep you -- you sabbe ? '' `` Me sabbe plenti `` -- grunt queequeg , puf away at hi pipe and sit up in bed . `` you gette in , '' he ad , motion to me with hi tomahawk , and throw the cloth to one side . He realli did thi in not onli a civil but a realli kind and charit way . I stood look at him a moment . for all hi tattoo he wa on the whole a clean , come look cannib . what ' s all thi fuss I have been make about , thought I to myself -- the man ' s a human be just as I am : he ha just as much reason to fear me , as I have to be afraid of him . better sleep with a sober cannib than a drunken christian . `` landlord , '' said I , `` tell him to stash hi tomahawk there , or pipe , or whatev you call it ; tell him to stop smoke , in short , and I will turn in with him . but I don ' t fanci have a man smoke in bed with me . It ' s danger . besid , I ain ' t insur . '' thi be told to queequeg , he at onc compli , and again polit motion me to get into bed -- roll over to one side as much as to say -- I won ' t touch a leg of ye . '' `` good night , landlord , '' said I , `` you may go . '' I turn in , and never slept better in my life . chapter 4 the counterpan . upon wake next morn about daylight , I found queequeg ' s arm thrown over me in the most love and affection manner . you had almost thought I had been hi wife . the counterpan wa of patchwork , full of odd littl parti - colour squar and triangl ; and thi arm of hi tattoo all over with an intermin cretan labyrinth of a figur , no two part of which were of one precis shade -- owe I suppos to hi keep hi arm at sea unmethod in sun and shade , hi shirt sleev irregularli roll up at variou time -- thi same arm of hi , I say , look for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork quilt . inde , partli lie on it as the arm did when I first awok , I could hardli tell it from the quilt , they so blend their hue togeth ; and it wa onli by the sens of weight and pressur that I could tell that queequeg wa hug me . My sensat were strang . let me tri to explain them . when I wa a child , I well rememb a somewhat similar circumst that befel me ; whether it wa a realiti or a dream , I never could entir settl . the circumst wa thi . I had been cut up some caper or other -- I think it wa tri to crawl up the chimney , as I had seen a littl sweep do a few day previou ; and my stepmoth who , somehow or other , wa all the time whip me , or send me to bed supperless , -- my mother drag me by the leg out of the chimney and pack me off to bed , though it wa onli two o ' clock in the afternoon of the 21st june , the longest day in the year in our hemispher . I felt dread . but there wa no help for it , so up stair I went to my littl room in the third floor , undress myself as slowli as possibl so as to kill time , and with a bitter sigh got between the sheet . I lay there dismal calcul that sixteen entir hour must elaps befor I could hope for a resurrect . sixteen hour in bed ! the small of my back ach to think of it . and it wa so light too ; the sun shine in at the window , and a great rattl of coach in the street , and the sound of gay voic all over the hous . I felt wors and wors -- at last I got up , dress , and softli go down in my stocking feet , sought out my stepmoth , and suddenli threw myself at her feet , beseech her as a particular favour to give me a good slipper for my misbehaviour ; anyth inde but condemn me to lie abe such an unendur length of time . but she wa the best and most conscienti of stepmoth , and back I had to go to my room . for sever hour I lay there broad awak , feel a great deal wors than I have ever done sinc , even from the greatest subsequ misfortun . At last I must have fallen into a troubl nightmar of a doze ; and slowli wake from it -- half steep in dream -- I open my eye , and the befor sun - lit room wa now wrap in outer dark . instantli I felt a shock run through all my frame ; noth wa to be seen , and noth wa to be heard ; but a supernatur hand seem place in mine . My arm hung over the counterpan , and the nameless , unimagin , silent form or phantom , to which the hand belong , seem close seat by my bed - side . for what seem age pile on age , I lay there , frozen with the most aw fear , not dare to drag away my hand ; yet ever think that if I could but stir it one singl inch , the horrid spell would be broken . I knew not how thi conscious at last glide away from me ; but wake in the morn , I shudderingli rememb it all , and for day and week and month afterward I lost myself in confound attempt to explain the mysteri . nay , to thi veri hour , I often puzzl myself with it . now , take away the aw fear , and my sensat at feel the supernatur hand in mine were veri similar , in their strang , to those which I experienc on wake up and see queequeg ' s pagan arm thrown round me . but at length all the past night ' s event soberli recur , one by one , in fix realiti , and then I lay onli aliv to the comic predica . for though I tri to move hi arm -- unlock hi bridegroom clasp -- yet , sleep as he wa , he still hug me tightli , as though naught but death should part us twain . I now strove to rous him -- '' queequeg ! '' -- but hi onli answer wa a snore . I then roll over , my neck feel as if it were in a hors - collar ; and suddenli felt a slight scratch . throw asid the counterpan , there lay the tomahawk sleep by the savag ' s side , as if it were a hatchet - face babi . A pretti pickl , truli , thought I ; abe here in a strang hous in the broad day , with a cannib and a tomahawk ! `` queequeg ! -- in the name of good , queequeg , wake ! '' At length , by dint of much wriggl , and loud and incess expostul upon the unbecoming of hi hug a fellow male in that matrimoni sort of style , I succeed in extract a grunt ; and present , he drew back hi arm , shook himself all over like a newfoundland dog just from the water , and sat up in bed , stiff as a pike - staff , look at me , and rub hi eye as if he did not altogeth rememb how I came to be there , though a dim conscious of know someth about me seem slowli dawn over him . meanwhil , I lay quietli eye him , have no seriou misgiv now , and bent upon narrowli observ so curiou a creatur . when , at last , hi mind seem made up touch the charact of hi bedfellow , and he becam , as it were , reconcil to the fact ; he jump out upon the floor , and by certain sign and sound gave me to understand that , if it pleas me , he would dress first and then leav me to dress afterward , leav the whole apart to myself . think I , queequeg , under the circumst , thi is a veri civil overtur ; but , the truth is , these savag have an innat sens of delicaci , say what you will ; it is marvel how essenti polit they are . I pay thi particular compliment to queequeg , becaus he treat me with so much civil and consider , while I wa guilti of great rude ; stare at him from the bed , and watch all hi toilett motion ; for the time my curios get the better of my breed . nevertheless , a man like queequeg you don ' t see everi day , he and hi way were well worth unusu regard . He commenc dress at top by don hi beaver hat , a veri tall one , by the by , and then -- still minu hi trowser -- he hunt up hi boot . what under the heaven he did it for , I can not tell , but hi next movement wa to crush himself -- boot in hand , and hat on -- under the bed ; when , from sundri violent gasp and strain , I infer he wa hard at work boot himself ; though by no law of proprieti that I ever heard of , is ani man requir to be privat when put on hi boot . but queequeg , do you see , wa a creatur in the transit stage -- neither caterpillar nor butterfli . He wa just enough civil to show off hi outlandish in the strangest possibl manner . hi educ wa not yet complet . He wa an undergradu . If he had not been a small degre civil , he veri probabl would not have troubl himself with boot at all ; but then , if he had not been still a savag , he never would have dreamt of get under the bed to put them on . At last , he emerg with hi hat veri much dent and crush down over hi eye , and began creak and limp about the room , as if , not be much accustom to boot , hi pair of damp , wrinkl cowhid one -- probabl not made to order either -- rather pinch and torment him at the first go off of a bitter cold morn . see , now , that there were no curtain to the window , and that the street be veri narrow , the hous opposit command a plain view into the room , and observ more and more the indecor figur that queequeg made , stave about with littl els but hi hat and boot on ; I beg him as well as I could , to acceler hi toilet somewhat , and particularli to get into hi pantaloon as soon as possibl . He compli , and then proceed to wash himself . At that time in the morn ani christian would have wash hi face ; but queequeg , to my amaz , content himself with restrict hi ablut to hi chest , arm , and hand . He then don hi waistcoat , and take up a piec of hard soap on the wash - stand centr tabl , dip it into water and commenc lather hi face . I wa watch to see where he kept hi razor , when lo and behold , he take the harpoon from the bed corner , slip out the long wooden stock , unsheath the head , whet it a littl on hi boot , and stride up to the bit of mirror against the wall , begin a vigor scrape , or rather harpoon of hi cheek . think I , queequeg , thi is use roger ' s best cutleri with a vengeanc . afterward I wonder the less at thi oper when I came to know of what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made , and how exceedingli sharp the long straight edg are alway kept . the rest of hi toilet wa soon achiev , and he proudli march out of the room , wrap up in hi great pilot monkey jacket , and sport hi harpoon like a marshal ' s baton . chapter 5 breakfast . I quickli follow suit , and descend into the bar - room accost the grin landlord veri pleasantli . I cherish no malic toward him , though he had been skylark with me not a littl in the matter of my bedfellow . howev , a good laugh is a mighti good thing , and rather too scarc a good thing ; the more ' s the piti . So , if ani one man , in hi own proper person , afford stuff for a good joke to anybodi , let him not be backward , but let him cheer allow himself to spend and be spent in that way . and the man that ha anyth bounti laughabl about him , be sure there is more in that man than you perhap think for . the bar - room wa now full of the boarder who had been drop in the night previou , and whom I had not as yet had a good look at . they were nearli all whalemen ; chief mate , and second mate , and third mate , and sea carpent , and sea cooper , and sea blacksmith , and harpoon , and ship keeper ; a brown and brawni compani , with boski beard ; an unshorn , shaggi set , all wear monkey jacket for morn gown . you could pretti plainli tell how long each one had been ashor . thi young fellow ' s healthi cheek is like a sun - toast pear in hue , and would seem to smell almost as muski ; he can not have been three day land from hi indian voyag . that man next him look a few shade lighter ; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him . In the complexion of a third still linger a tropic tawn , but slightli bleach withal ; HE doubtless ha tarri whole week ashor . but who could show a cheek like queequeg ? which , bar with variou tint , seem like the and ' western slope , to show forth in one array , contrast climat , zone by zone . `` grub , ho ! '' now cri the landlord , fling open a door , and in we went to breakfast . they say that men who have seen the world , therebi becom quit at eas in manner , quit self - possess in compani . not alway , though : ledyard , the great new england travel , and mungo park , the scotch one ; of all men , they possess the least assur in the parlor . but perhap the mere cross of siberia in a sledg drawn by dog as ledyard did , or the take a long solitari walk on an empti stomach , in the negro heart of africa , which wa the sum of poor mungo ' s perform -- thi kind of travel , I say , may not be the veri best mode of attain a high social polish . still , for the most part , that sort of thing is to be had anywher . these reflect just here are occas by the circumst that after we were all seat at the tabl , and I wa prepar to hear some good stori about whale ; to my no small surpris , nearli everi man maintain a profound silenc . and not onli that , but they look embarrass . ye , here were a set of sea - dog , mani of whom without the slightest bash had board great whale on the high sea -- entir stranger to them -- and duell them dead without wink ; and yet , here they sat at a social breakfast tabl -- all of the same call , all of kindr tast -- look round as sheepishli at each other as though they had never been out of sight of some sheepfold among the green mountain . A curiou sight ; these bash bear , these timid warrior whalemen ! but as for queequeg -- whi , queequeg sat there among them -- at the head of the tabl , too , it so chanc ; as cool as an icicl . To be sure I can not say much for hi breed . hi greatest admir could not have cordial justifi hi bring hi harpoon into breakfast with him , and use it there without ceremoni ; reach over the tabl with it , to the immin jeopardi of mani head , and grappl the beefsteak toward him . but that wa certainli veri coolli done by him , and everi one know that in most peopl ' s estim , to do anyth coolli is to do it genteelli . We will not speak of all queequeg ' s peculiar here ; how he eschew coffe and hot roll , and appli hi undivid attent to beefsteak , done rare . enough , that when breakfast wa over he withdrew like the rest into the public room , light hi tomahawk - pipe , and wa sit there quietli digest and smoke with hi insepar hat on , when I salli out for a stroll . chapter 6 the street . If I had been astonish at first catch a glimps of so outlandish an individu as queequeg circul among the polit societi of a civil town , that astonish soon depart upon take my first daylight stroll through the street of new bedford . In thoroughfar nigh the dock , ani consider seaport will frequent offer to view the queerest look nondescript from foreign part . even in broadway and chestnut street , mediterranean marin will sometim jostl the affright ladi . regent street is not unknown to lascar and malay ; and at bombay , in the apollo green , live yanke have often scare the nativ . but new bedford beat all water street and wap . In these last - mention haunt you see onli sailor ; but in new bedford , actual cannib stand chat at street corner ; savag outright ; mani of whom yet carri on their bone unholi flesh . It make a stranger stare . but , besid the feegeean , tongatobooarr , erromanggoan , pannangian , and brighggian , and , besid the wild specimen of the whale - craft which unheed reel about the street , you will see other sight still more curiou , certainli more comic . there weekli arriv in thi town score of green vermont and new hampshir men , all athirst for gain and glori in the fisheri . they are mostli young , of stalwart frame ; fellow who have fell forest , and now seek to drop the axe and snatch the whale - lanc . mani are as green as the green mountain whenc they came . In some thing you would think them but a few hour old . look there ! that chap strut round the corner . He wear a beaver hat and swallow - tail coat , girdl with a sailor - belt and sheath - knife . here come anoth with a sou '- wester and a bombazin cloak . No town - bred dandi will compar with a countri - bred one -- I mean a downright bumpkin dandi -- a fellow that , in the dog - day , will mow hi two acr in buckskin glove for fear of tan hi hand . now when a countri dandi like thi take it into hi head to make a distinguish reput , and join the great whale - fisheri , you should see the comic thing he doe upon reach the seaport . In bespeak hi sea - outfit , he order bell - button to hi waistcoat ; strap to hi canva trowser . Ah , poor hay - seed ! how bitterli will burst those strap in the first howl gale , when thou art driven , strap , button , and all , down the throat of the tempest . but think not that thi famou town ha onli harpoon , cannib , and bumpkin to show her visitor . not at all . still new bedford is a queer place . had it not been for us whalemen , that tract of land would thi day perhap have been in as howl condit as the coast of labrador . As it is , part of her back countri are enough to frighten one , they look so boni . the town itself is perhap the dearest place to live in , in all new england . It is a land of oil , true enough : but not like canaan ; a land , also , of corn and wine . the street do not run with milk ; nor in the spring - time do they pave them with fresh egg . yet , in spite of thi , nowher in all america will you find more patrician - like hous ; park and garden more opul , than in new bedford . whenc came they ? how plant upon thi onc scraggi scoria of a countri ? Go and gaze upon the iron emblemat harpoon round yonder lofti mansion , and your question will be answer . ye ; all these brave hous and floweri garden came from the atlant , pacif , and indian ocean . one and all , they were harpoon and drag up hither from the bottom of the sea . can herr alexand perform a feat like that ? In new bedford , father , they say , give whale for dower to their daughter , and portion off their niec with a few porpois a - piec . you must go to new bedford to see a brilliant wed ; for , they say , they have reservoir of oil in everi hous , and everi night recklessli burn their length in spermaceti candl . In summer time , the town is sweet to see ; full of fine mapl -- long avenu of green and gold . and in august , high in air , the beauti and bounti hors - chestnut , candelabra - wise , proffer the passer - by their taper upright cone of congreg blossom . So omnipot is art ; which in mani a district of new bedford ha superinduc bright terrac of flower upon the barren refus rock thrown asid at creation ' s final day . and the women of new bedford , they bloom like their own red rose . but rose onli bloom in summer ; wherea the fine carnat of their cheek is perenni as sunlight in the seventh heaven . elsewher match that bloom of their , ye can not , save in salem , where they tell me the young girl breath such musk , their sailor sweetheart smell them mile off shore , as though they were draw nigh the odor molucca instead of the puritan sand . chapter 7 the chapel . In thi same new bedford there stand a whaleman ' s chapel , and few are the moodi fishermen , shortli bound for the indian ocean or pacif , who fail to make a sunday visit to the spot . I am sure that I did not . return from my first morn stroll , I again salli out upon thi special errand . the sky had chang from clear , sunni cold , to drive sleet and mist . wrap myself in my shaggi jacket of the cloth call bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . enter , I found a small scatter congreg of sailor , and sailor ' wive and widow . A muffl silenc reign , onli broken at time by the shriek of the storm . each silent worshipp seem purpos sit apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunic . the chaplain had not yet arriv ; and there these silent island of men and women sat steadfastli eye sever marbl tablet , with black border , mason into the wall on either side the pulpit . three of them ran someth like the follow , but I do not pretend to quot : -- sacr TO the memori OF john talbot , who , at the age of eighteen , wa lost overboard , near the isl of desol , off patagonia , novemb 1st , 1836 . thi tablet Is erect to hi memori BY hi sister . _____________ sacr TO the memori OF robert long , willi elleri , nathan coleman , walter canni , seth maci , and samuel gleig , form one of the boat ' crew OF the ship eliza who were tow out of sight by a whale , On the off - shore ground in the pacif , decemb 31st , 1839 . thi marbl Is here place by their surviv shipmat . _____________ sacr TO the memori OF the late captain ezekiel hardi , who in the bow of hi boat wa kill by a sperm whale on the coast of japan , august 3d , 1833 . thi tablet Is erect to hi memori BY hi widow . shake off the sleet from my ice - glaze hat and jacket , I seat myself near the door , and turn sideway wa surpris to see queequeg near me . affect by the solemn of the scene , there wa a wonder gaze of incredul curios in hi counten . thi savag wa the onli person present who seem to notic my entranc ; becaus he wa the onli one who could not read , and , therefor , wa not read those frigid inscript on the wall . whether ani of the rel of the seamen whose name appear there were now among the congreg , I knew not ; but so mani are the unrecord accid in the fisheri , and so plainli did sever women present wear the counten if not the trap of some unceas grief , that I feel sure that here befor me were assembl those , in whose unheal heart the sight of those bleak tablet sympathet caus the old wound to bleed afresh . Oh ! ye whose dead lie buri beneath the green grass ; who stand among flower can say -- here , here lie my belov ; ye know not the desol that brood in bosom like these . what bitter blank in those black - border marbl which cover no ash ! what despair in those immov inscript ! what deadli void and unbidden infidel in the line that seem to gnaw upon all faith , and refus resurrect to the be who have placelessli perish without a grave . As well might those tablet stand in the cave of elephanta as here . In what censu of live creatur , the dead of mankind are includ ; whi it is that a univers proverb say of them , that they tell no tale , though contain more secret than the goodwin sand ; how it is that to hi name who yesterday depart for the other world , we prefix so signific and infidel a word , and yet do not thu entitl him , if he but embark for the remotest indi of thi live earth ; whi the life insur compani pay death - forfeitur upon immort ; in what etern , unstir paralysi , and deadli , hopeless tranc , yet lie antiqu adam who die sixti round centuri ago ; how it is that we still refus to be comfort for those who we nevertheless maintain are dwell in unspeak bliss ; whi all the live so strive to hush all the dead ; wherefor but the rumor of a knock in a tomb will terrifi a whole citi . all these thing are not without their mean . but faith , like a jackal , feed among the tomb , and even from these dead doubt she gather her most vital hope . It need scarc to be told , with what feel , on the eve of a nantucket voyag , I regard those marbl tablet , and by the murki light of that darken , dole day read the fate of the whalemen who had gone befor me . ye , ishmael , the same fate may be thine . but somehow I grew merri again . delight induc to embark , fine chanc for promot , it seem -- aye , a stove boat will make me an immort by brevet . ye , there is death in thi busi of whale -- a speechlessli quick chaotic bundl of a man into etern . but what then ? methink we have huge mistaken thi matter of life and death . methink that what they call my shadow here on earth is my true substanc . methink that in look at thing spiritu , we are too much like oyster observ the sun through the water , and think that thick water the thinnest of air . methink my bodi is but the lee of my better be . In fact take my bodi who will , take it I say , it is not me . and therefor three cheer for nantucket ; and come a stove boat and stove bodi when they will , for stave my soul , jove himself can not . chapter 8 the pulpit . I had not been seat veri long ere a man of a certain vener robust enter ; immedi as the storm - pelt door flew back upon admit him , a quick regard eye of him by all the congreg , suffici attest that thi fine old man wa the chaplain . ye , it wa the famou father mappl , so call by the whalemen , among whom he wa a veri great favourit . He had been a sailor and a harpoon in hi youth , but for mani year past had dedic hi life to the ministri . At the time I now write of , father mappl wa in the hardi winter of a healthi old age ; that sort of old age which seem merg into a second flower youth , for among all the fissur of hi wrinkl , there shone certain mild gleam of a newli develop bloom -- the spring verdur peep forth even beneath februari ' s snow . No one have previous heard hi histori , could for the first time behold father mappl without the utmost interest , becaus there were certain engraft cleric peculiar about him , imput to that adventur maritim life he had led . when he enter I observ that he carri no umbrella , and certainli had not come in hi carriag , for hi tarpaulin hat ran down with melt sleet , and hi great pilot cloth jacket seem almost to drag him to the floor with the weight of the water it had absorb . howev , hat and coat and oversho were one by one remov , and hung up in a littl space in an adjac corner ; when , array in a decent suit , he quietli approach the pulpit . like most old fashion pulpit , it wa a veri lofti one , and sinc a regular stair to such a height would , by it long angl with the floor , serious contract the alreadi small area of the chapel , the architect , it seem , had act upon the hint of father mappl , and finish the pulpit without a stair , substitut a perpendicular side ladder , like those use in mount a ship from a boat at sea . the wife of a whale captain had provid the chapel with a handsom pair of red worst man - rope for thi ladder , which , be itself nice head , and stain with a mahogani colour , the whole contriv , consid what manner of chapel it wa , seem by no mean in bad tast . halt for an instant at the foot of the ladder , and with both hand grasp the ornament knob of the man - rope , father mappl cast a look upward , and then with a truli sailor - like but still reverenti dexter , hand over hand , mount the step as if ascend the main - top of hi vessel . the perpendicular part of thi side ladder , as is usual the case with swing one , were of cloth - cover rope , onli the round were of wood , so that at everi step there wa a joint . At my first glimps of the pulpit , it had not escap me that howev conveni for a ship , these joint in the present instanc seem unnecessari . for I wa not prepar to see father mappl after gain the height , slowli turn round , and stoop over the pulpit , deliber drag up the ladder step by step , till the whole wa deposit within , leav him impregn in hi littl quebec . I ponder some time without fulli comprehend the reason for thi . father mappl enjoy such a wide reput for sincer and sanctiti , that I could not suspect him of court notorieti by ani mere trick of the stage . No , thought I , there must be some sober reason for thi thing ; furthermor , it must symbol someth unseen . can it be , then , that by that act of physic isol , he signifi hi spiritu withdraw for the time , from all outward worldli tie and connexion ? ye , for replenish with the meat and wine of the word , to the faith man of god , thi pulpit , I see , is a self - contain stronghold -- a lofti ehrenbreitstein , with a perenni well of water within the wall . but the side ladder wa not the onli strang featur of the place , borrow from the chaplain ' s former sea - fare . between the marbl cenotaph on either hand of the pulpit , the wall which form it back wa adorn with a larg paint repres a gallant ship beat against a terribl storm off a lee coast of black rock and snowi breaker . but high abov the fli scud and dark - roll cloud , there float a littl isl of sunlight , from which beam forth an angel ' s face ; and thi bright face shed a distinct spot of radianc upon the ship ' s toss deck , someth like that silver plate now insert into the victori ' s plank where nelson fell . `` Ah , nobl ship , '' the angel seem to say , `` beat on , beat on , thou nobl ship , and bear a hardi helm ; for lo ! the sun is break through ; the cloud are roll off -- serenest azur is at hand . '' nor wa the pulpit itself without a trace of the same sea - tast that had achiev the ladder and the pictur . it panel front wa in the like of a ship ' s bluff bow , and the holi bibl rest on a project piec of scroll work , fashion after a ship ' s fiddl - head beak . what could be more full of mean ? -- for the pulpit is ever thi earth ' s foremost part ; all the rest come in it rear ; the pulpit lead the world . from thenc it is the storm of god ' s quick wrath is first descri , and the bow must bear the earliest brunt . from thenc it is the god of breez fair or foul is first invok for favour wind . ye , the world ' s a ship on it passag out , and not a voyag complet ; and the pulpit is it prow . chapter 9 the sermon . father mappl rose , and in a mild voic of unassum author order the scatter peopl to condens . `` starboard gangway , there ! side away to larboard -- larboard gangway to starboard ! midship ! midship ! '' there wa a low rumbl of heavi sea - boot among the bench , and a still slighter shuffl of women ' s shoe , and all wa quiet again , and everi eye on the preacher . He paus a littl ; then kneel in the pulpit ' s bow , fold hi larg brown hand across hi chest , uplift hi close eye , and offer a prayer so deepli devout that he seem kneel and pray at the bottom of the sea . thi end , in prolong solemn tone , like the continu toll of a bell in a ship that is founder at sea in a fog -- in such tone he commenc read the follow hymn ; but chang hi manner toward the conclud stanza , burst forth with a peal exult and joy -- `` the rib and terror in the whale , arch over me a dismal gloom , while all god ' s sun - lit wave roll by , and lift me deepen down to doom . `` I saw the open maw of hell , with endless pain and sorrow there ; which none but they that feel can tell -- Oh , I wa plung to despair . `` In black distress , I call my god , when I could scarc believ him mine , He bow hi ear to my complaint -- No more the whale did me confin . `` with speed he flew to my relief , As on a radiant dolphin born ; aw , yet bright , as lightn shone the face of my deliver god . `` My song for ever shall record that terribl , that joy hour ; I give the glori to my god , hi all the merci and the power . nearli all join in sing thi hymn , which swell high abov the howl of the storm . A brief paus ensu ; the preacher slowli turn over the leav of the bibl , and at last , fold hi hand down upon the proper page , said : `` belov shipmat , clinch the last vers of the first chapter of jonah -- ' and god had prepar a great fish to swallow up jonah . ' '' `` shipmat , thi book , contain onli four chapter -- four yarn -- is one of the smallest strand in the mighti cabl of the scriptur . yet what depth of the soul doe jonah ' s deep sealin sound ! what a pregnant lesson to us is thi prophet ! what a nobl thing is that canticl in the fish ' s belli ! how billow - like and boister grand ! We feel the flood surg over us ; we sound with him to the kelpi bottom of the water ; sea - weed and all the slime of the sea is about us ! but what is thi lesson that the book of jonah teach ? shipmat , it is a two - strand lesson ; a lesson to us all as sin men , and a lesson to me as a pilot of the live god . As sin men , it is a lesson to us all , becaus it is a stori of the sin , hard - hearted , suddenli awaken fear , the swift punish , repent , prayer , and final the deliver and joy of jonah . As with all sinner among men , the sin of thi son of amittai wa in hi wil disobedi of the command of god -- never mind now what that command wa , or how convey -- which he found a hard command . but all the thing that god would have us do are hard for us to do -- rememb that -- and henc , he often command us than endeavor to persuad . and if we obey god , we must disobey ourselv ; and it is in thi disobey ourselv , wherein the hard of obey god consist . `` with thi sin of disobedi in him , jonah still further flout at god , by seek to flee from him . He think that a ship made by men will carri him into countri where god doe not reign , but onli the captain of thi earth . He skulk about the wharv of joppa , and seek a ship that ' s bound for tarshish . there lurk , perhap , a hitherto unheed mean here . By all account tarshish could have been no other citi than the modern cadiz . that ' s the opinion of learn men . and where is cadiz , shipmat ? cadiz is in spain ; as far by water , from joppa , as jonah could possibl have sail in those ancient day , when the atlant wa an almost unknown sea . becaus joppa , the modern jaffa , shipmat , is on the most easterli coast of the mediterranean , the syrian ; and tarshish or cadiz more than two thousand mile to the westward from that , just outsid the strait of gibraltar . see ye not then , shipmat , that jonah sought to flee world - wide from god ? miser man ! Oh ! most contempt and worthi of all scorn ; with slouch hat and guilti eye , skulk from hi god ; prowl among the ship like a vile burglar hasten to cross the sea . So disord , self - condemn is hi look , that had there been policemen in those day , jonah , on the mere suspicion of someth wrong , had been arrest ere he touch a deck . how plainli he ' s a fugit ! no baggag , not a hat - box , valis , or carpet - bag , -- no friend accompani him to the wharf with their adieux . At last , after much dodg search , he find the tarshish ship receiv the last item of her cargo ; and as he step on board to see it captain in the cabin , all the sailor for the moment desist from hoist in the good , to mark the stranger ' s evil eye . jonah see thi ; but in vain he tri to look all eas and confid ; in vain essay hi wretch smile . strong intuit of the man assur the marin he can be no innoc . In their gamesom but still seriou way , one whisper to the other -- '' jack , he ' s rob a widow ; '' or , `` joe , do you mark him ; he ' s a bigamist ; '' or , `` harri lad , I guess he ' s the adulter that broke jail in old gomorrah , or belik , one of the miss murder from sodom . '' anoth run to read the bill that ' s stuck against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is moor , offer five hundr gold coin for the apprehens of a parricid , and contain a descript of hi person . He read , and look from jonah to the bill ; while all hi sympathet shipmat now crowd round jonah , prepar to lay their hand upon him . fright jonah trembl , and summon all hi bold to hi face , onli look so much the more a coward . He will not confess himself suspect ; but that itself is strong suspicion . So he make the best of it ; and when the sailor find him not to be the man that is advertis , they let him pass , and he descend into the cabin . `` ' who ' s there ? ' cri the captain at hi busi desk , hurriedli make out hi paper for the custom -- ' who ' s there ? ' Oh ! how that harmless question mangl jonah ! for the instant he almost turn to flee again . but he ralli . ' I seek a passag in thi ship to tarshish ; how soon sail ye , sir ? ' thu far the busi captain had not look up to jonah , though the man now stand befor him ; but no sooner doe he hear that hollow voic , than he dart a scrutin glanc . ' We sail with the next come tide , ' at last he slowli answer , still intent eye him . ' No sooner , sir ? ' -- ' soon enough for ani honest man that goe a passeng . ' Ha ! jonah , that ' s anoth stab . but he swiftli call away the captain from that scent . ' I ' ll sail with ye , ' -- he say , -- ' the passag money how much is that ? -- I ' ll pay now . ' for it is particularli written , shipmat , as if it were a thing not to be overlook in thi histori , ' that he paid the fare thereof ' ere the craft did sail . and taken with the context , thi is full of mean . `` now jonah ' s captain , shipmat , wa one whose discern detect crime in ani , but whose cupid expos it onli in the penniless . In thi world , shipmat , sin that pay it way can travel freeli , and without a passport ; wherea virtu , if a pauper , is stop at all frontier . So jonah ' s captain prepar to test the length of jonah ' s purs , ere he judg him openli . He charg him thrice the usual sum ; and it ' s assent to . then the captain know that jonah is a fugit ; but at the same time resolv to help a flight that pave it rear with gold . yet when jonah fairli take out hi purs , prudent suspicion still molest the captain . He ring everi coin to find a counterfeit . not a forger , ani way , he mutter ; and jonah is put down for hi passag . ' point out my state - room , sir , ' say jonah now , ' I ' m travel - weari ; I need sleep . ' ' thou lookest like it , ' say the captain , ' there ' s thi room . ' jonah enter , and would lock the door , but the lock contain no key . hear him foolishli fumbl there , the captain laugh lowli to himself , and mutter someth about the door of convict ' cell be never allow to be lock within . all dress and dusti as he is , jonah throw himself into hi berth , and find the littl state - room ceil almost rest on hi forehead . the air is close , and jonah gasp . then , in that contract hole , sunk , too , beneath the ship ' s water - line , jonah feel the herald presenti of that stifl hour , when the whale shall hold him in the smallest of hi bowel ' ward . `` screw at it axi against the side , a swing lamp slightli oscil in jonah ' s room ; and the ship , heel over toward the wharf with the weight of the last bale receiv , the lamp , flame and all , though in slight motion , still maintain a perman obliqu with refer to the room ; though , in truth , infal straight itself , it but made obviou the fals , lie level among which it hung . the lamp alarm and frighten jonah ; as lie in hi berth hi torment eye roll round the place , and thi thu far success fugit find no refug for hi restless glanc . but that contradict in the lamp more and more appal him . the floor , the ceil , and the side , are all awri . ' Oh ! so my conscienc hang in me ! ' he groan , ' straight upward , so it burn ; but the chamber of my soul are all in crooked ! ' `` like one who after a night of drunken revelri hie to hi bed , still reel , but with conscienc yet prick him , as the plung of the roman race - hors but so much the more strike hi steel tag into him ; as one who in that miser plight still turn and turn in giddi anguish , pray god for annihil until the fit be pass ; and at last amid the whirl of woe he feel , a deep stupor steal over him , as over the man who bleed to death , for conscienc is the wound , and there ' s naught to staunch it ; so , after sore wrestl in hi berth , jonah ' s prodigi of ponder miseri drag him drown down to sleep . `` and now the time of tide ha come ; the ship cast off her cabl ; and from the desert wharf the uncheer ship for tarshish , all careen , glide to sea . that ship , my friend , wa the first of record smuggler ! the contraband wa jonah . but the sea rebel ; he will not bear the wick burden . A dread storm come on , the ship is like to break . but now when the boatswain call all hand to lighten her ; when box , bale , and jar are clatter overboard ; when the wind is shriek , and the men are yell , and everi plank thunder with trampl feet right over jonah ' s head ; in all thi rage tumult , jonah sleep hi hideou sleep . He see no black sky and rage sea , feel not the reel timber , and littl hear he or heed he the far rush of the mighti whale , which even now with open mouth is cleav the sea after him . aye , shipmat , jonah wa gone down into the side of the ship -- a berth in the cabin as I have taken it , and wa fast asleep . but the frighten master come to him , and shriek in hi dead ear , ' what meanest thou , O , sleeper ! aris ! ' startl from hi lethargi by that dire cri , jonah stagger to hi feet , and stumbl to the deck , grasp a shroud , to look out upon the sea . but at that moment he is sprung upon by a panther billow leap over the bulwark . wave after wave thu leap into the ship , and find no speedi vent run roar fore and aft , till the marin come nigh to drown while yet afloat . and ever , as the white moon show her affright face from the steep gulli in the black overhead , aghast jonah see the rear bowsprit point high upward , but soon beat downward again toward the torment deep . `` terror upon terror run shout through hi soul . In all hi cring attitud , the god - fugit is now too plainli known . the sailor mark him ; more and more certain grow their suspicion of him , and at last , fulli to test the truth , by refer the whole matter to high heaven , they fall to cast lot , to see for whose caus thi great tempest wa upon them . the lot is jonah ' s ; that discov , then how furious they mob him with their question . ' what is thine occup ? whenc comest thou ? thi countri ? what peopl ? but mark now , my shipmat , the behavior of poor jonah . the eager marin but ask him who he is , and where from ; wherea , they not onli receiv an answer to those question , but likewis anoth answer to a question not put by them , but the unsolicit answer is forc from jonah by the hard hand of god that is upon him . `` ' I am a hebrew , ' he cri -- and then -- ' I fear the lord the god of heaven who hath made the sea and the dri land ! ' fear him , O jonah ? aye , well mightest thou fear the lord god then ! straightway , he now goe on to make a full confess ; whereupon the marin becam more and more appal , but still are piti . for when jonah , not yet supplic god for merci , sinc he but too well knew the dark of hi desert , -- when wretch jonah cri out to them to take him and cast him forth into the sea , for he knew that for hi sake thi great tempest wa upon them ; they merci turn from him , and seek by other mean to save the ship . but all in vain ; the indign gale howl louder ; then , with one hand rais invokingli to god , with the other they not unreluctantli lay hold of jonah . `` and now behold jonah taken up as an anchor and drop into the sea ; when instantli an oili calm float out from the east , and the sea is still , as jonah carri down the gale with him , leav smooth water behind . He goe down in the whirl heart of such a masterless commot that he scarc heed the moment when he drop seeth into the yawn jaw await him ; and the whale shoot - to all hi ivori teeth , like so mani white bolt , upon hi prison . then jonah pray unto the lord out of the fish ' s belli . but observ hi prayer , and learn a weighti lesson . for sin as he is , jonah doe not weep and wail for direct deliver . He feel that hi dread punish is just . He leav all hi deliver to god , content himself with thi , that spite of all hi pain and pang , he will still look toward hi holi templ . and here , shipmat , is true and faith repent ; not clamor for pardon , but grate for punish . and how pleas to god wa thi conduct in jonah , is shown in the eventu deliver of him from the sea and the whale . shipmat , I do not place jonah befor you to be copi for hi sin but I do place him befor you as a model for repent . sin not ; but if you do , take heed to repent of it like jonah . '' while he wa speak these word , the howl of the shriek , slant storm without seem to add new power to the preacher , who , when describ jonah ' s sea - storm , seem toss by a storm himself . hi deep chest heav as with a ground - swell ; hi toss arm seem the war element at work ; and the thunder that roll away from off hi swarthi brow , and the light leap from hi eye , made all hi simpl hearer look on him with a quick fear that wa strang to them . there now came a lull in hi look , as he silent turn over the leav of the book onc more ; and , at last , stand motionless , with close eye , for the moment , seem commun with god and himself . but again he lean over toward the peopl , and bow hi head lowli , with an aspect of the deepest yet manliest humil , he spake these word : `` shipmat , god ha laid but one hand upon you ; both hi hand press upon me . I have read ye by what murki light may be mine the lesson that jonah teach to all sinner ; and therefor to ye , and still more to me , for I am a greater sinner than ye . and now how gladli would I come down from thi mast - head and sit on the hatch there where you sit , and listen as you listen , while some one of you read ME that other and more aw lesson which jonah teach to ME , as a pilot of the live god . how be an anoint pilot - prophet , or speaker of true thing , and bidden by the lord to sound those unwelcom truth in the ear of a wick nineveh , jonah , appal at the hostil he should rais , fled from hi mission , and sought to escap hi duti and hi god by take ship at joppa . but god is everywher ; tarshish he never reach . As we have seen , god came upon him in the whale , and swallow him down to live gulf of doom , and with swift slant tore him along ' into the midst of the sea , ' where the eddi depth suck him ten thousand fathom down , and ' the weed were wrap about hi head , ' and all the wateri world of woe bowl over him . yet even then beyond the reach of ani plummet -- ' out of the belli of hell ' -- when the whale ground upon the ocean ' s utmost bone , even then , god heard the engulph , repent prophet when he cri . then god spake unto the fish ; and from the shudder cold and black of the sea , the whale came breech up toward the warm and pleasant sun , and all the delight of air and earth ; and ' vomit out jonah upon the dri land ; ' when the word of the lord came a second time ; and jonah , bruis and beaten -- hi ear , like two sea - shell , still multitudin murmur of the ocean -- jonah did the almighti ' s bid . and what wa that , shipmat ? To preach the truth to the face of falsehood ! that wa it ! `` thi , shipmat , thi is that other lesson ; and woe to that pilot of the live god who slight it . woe to him whom thi world charm from gospel duti ! woe to him who seek to pour oil upon the water when god ha brew them into a gale ! woe to him who seek to pleas rather than to appal ! woe to him whose good name is more to him than good ! woe to him who , in thi world , court not dishonour ! woe to him who would not be true , even though to be fals were salvat ! yea , woe to him who , as the great pilot paul ha it , while preach to other is himself a castaway ! '' He drop and fell away from himself for a moment ; then lift hi face to them again , show a deep joy in hi eye , as he cri out with a heavenli enthusiasm , -- '' but oh ! shipmat ! on the starboard hand of everi woe , there is a sure delight ; and higher the top of that delight , than the bottom of the woe is deep . Is not the main - truck higher than the kelson is low ? delight is to him -- a far , far upward , and inward delight -- who against the proud god and commodor of thi earth , ever stand forth hi own inexor self . delight is to him whose strong arm yet support him , when the ship of thi base treacher world ha gone down beneath him . delight is to him , who give no quarter in the truth , and kill , burn , and destroy all sin though he pluck it out from under the robe of senat and judg . delight , -- top - gallant delight is to him , who acknowledg no law or lord , but the lord hi god , and is onli a patriot to heaven . delight is to him , whom all the wave of the billow of the sea of the boister mob can never shake from thi sure keel of the age . and etern delight and delici will be hi , who come to lay him down , can say with hi final breath -- O father ! -- chiefli known to me by thi rod -- mortal or immort , here I die . I have striven to be thine , more than to be thi world ' s , or mine own . yet thi is noth : I leav etern to thee ; for what is man that he should live out the lifetim of hi god ? '' He said no more , but slowli wave a benedict , cover hi face with hi hand , and so remain kneel , till all the peopl had depart , and he wa left alon in the place . chapter 10 A bosom friend . return to the spouter - inn from the chapel , I found queequeg there quit alon ; he have left the chapel befor the benedict some time . He wa sit on a bench befor the fire , with hi feet on the stove hearth , and in one hand wa hold close up to hi face that littl negro idol of hi ; peer hard into it face , and with a jack - knife gentli whittl away at it nose , meanwhil hum to himself in hi heathenish way . but be now interrupt , he put up the imag ; and pretti soon , go to the tabl , took up a larg book there , and place it on hi lap began count the page with deliber regular ; at everi fiftieth page -- as I fanci -- stop a moment , look vacantli around him , and give utter to a long - drawn gurgl whistl of astonish . He would then begin again at the next fifti ; seem to commenc at number one each time , as though he could not count more than fifti , and it wa onli by such a larg number of fifti be found togeth , that hi astonish at the multitud of page wa excit . with much interest I sat watch him . savag though he wa , and hideous mar about the face -- at least to my tast -- hi counten yet had a someth in it which wa by no mean disagre . you can not hide the soul . through all hi unearthli tattoo , I thought I saw the trace of a simpl honest heart ; and in hi larg , deep eye , fieri black and bold , there seem token of a spirit that would dare a thousand devil . and besid all thi , there wa a certain lofti bear about the pagan , which even hi uncouth could not altogeth maim . He look like a man who had never cring and never had had a creditor . whether it wa , too , that hi head be shave , hi forehead wa drawn out in freer and brighter relief , and look more expans than it otherwis would , thi I will not ventur to decid ; but certain it wa hi head wa phrenolog an excel one . It may seem ridicul , but it remind me of gener washington ' s head , as seen in the popular bust of him . It had the same long regularli grade retreat slope from abov the brow , which were likewis veri project , like two long promontori thickli wood on top . queequeg wa georg washington cannibalist develop . whilst I wa thu close scan him , half - pretend meanwhil to be look out at the storm from the casement , he never heed my presenc , never troubl himself with so much as a singl glanc ; but appear wholli occupi with count the page of the marvel book . consid how sociabl we had been sleep togeth the night previou , and especi consid the affection arm I had found thrown over me upon wake in the morn , I thought thi indiffer of hi veri strang . but savag are strang be ; at time you do not know exactli how to take them . At first they are overaw ; their calm self - collected of simplic seem a socrat wisdom . I had notic also that queequeg never consort at all , or but veri littl , with the other seamen in the inn . He made no advanc whatev ; appear to have no desir to enlarg the circl of hi acquaint . all thi struck me as mighti singular ; yet , upon second thought , there wa someth almost sublim in it . here wa a man some twenti thousand mile from home , by the way of cape horn , that is -- which wa the onli way he could get there -- thrown among peopl as strang to him as though he were in the planet jupit ; and yet he seem entir at hi eas ; preserv the utmost seren ; content with hi own companionship ; alway equal to himself . sure thi wa a touch of fine philosophi ; though no doubt he had never heard there wa such a thing as that . but , perhap , to be true philosoph , we mortal should not be consciou of so live or so strive . So soon as I hear that such or such a man give himself out for a philosoph , I conclud that , like the dyspept old woman , he must have `` broken hi digest . '' As I sat there in that now lone room ; the fire burn low , in that mild stage when , after it first intens ha warm the air , it then onli glow to be look at ; the even shade and phantom gather round the casement , and peer in upon us silent , solitari twain ; the storm boom without in solemn swell ; I began to be sensibl of strang feel . I felt a melt in me . No more my splinter heart and madden hand were turn against the wolfish world . thi sooth savag had redeem it . there he sat , hi veri indiffer speak a natur in which there lurk no civil hypocrisi and bland deceit . wild he wa ; a veri sight of sight to see ; yet I began to feel myself mysteri drawn toward him . and those same thing that would have repel most other , they were the veri magnet that thu drew me . I ' ll tri a pagan friend , thought I , sinc christian kind ha prove but hollow courtesi . I drew my bench near him , and made some friendli sign and hint , do my best to talk with him meanwhil . At first he littl notic these advanc ; but present , upon my refer to hi last night ' s hospit , he made out to ask me whether we were again to be bedfellow . I told him ye ; whereat I thought he look pleas , perhap a littl compliment . We then turn over the book togeth , and I endeavor to explain to him the purpos of the print , and the mean of the few pictur that were in it . thu I soon engag hi interest ; and from that we went to jabber the best we could about the variou outer sight to be seen in thi famou town . soon I propos a social smoke ; and , produc hi pouch and tomahawk , he quietli offer me a puff . and then we sat exchang puff from that wild pipe of hi , and keep it regularli pass between us . If there yet lurk ani ice of indiffer toward me in the pagan ' s breast , thi pleasant , genial smoke we had , soon thaw it out , and left us croni . He seem to take to me quit as natur and unbiddenli as I to him ; and when our smoke wa over , he press hi forehead against mine , clasp me round the waist , and said that henceforth we were marri ; mean , in hi countri ' s phrase , that we were bosom friend ; he would gladli die for me , if need should be . In a countryman , thi sudden flame of friendship would have seem far too prematur , a thing to be much distrust ; but in thi simpl savag those old rule would not appli . after supper , and anoth social chat and smoke , we went to our room togeth . He made me a present of hi embalm head ; took out hi enorm tobacco wallet , and grope under the tobacco , drew out some thirti dollar in silver ; then spread them on the tabl , and mechan divid them into two equal portion , push one of them toward me , and said it wa mine . I wa go to remonstr ; but he silenc me by pour them into my trowser ' pocket . I let them stay . He then went about hi even prayer , took out hi idol , and remov the paper fireboard . By certain sign and symptom , I thought he seem anxiou for me to join him ; but well know what wa to follow , I deliber a moment whether , in case he invit me , I would compli or otherwis . I wa a good christian ; born and bred in the bosom of the infal presbyterian church . how then could I unit with thi wild idol in worship hi piec of wood ? but what is worship ? thought I . Do you suppos now , ishmael , that the magnanim god of heaven and earth -- pagan and all includ -- can possibl be jealou of an insignific bit of black wood ? imposs ! but what is worship ? -- to do the will of god -- that is worship . and what is the will of god ? -- to do to my fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me -- that is the will of god . now , queequeg is my fellow man . and what do I wish that thi queequeg would do to me ? whi , unit with me in my particular presbyterian form of worship . consequ , I must then unit with him in hi ; ergo , I must turn idol . So I kindl the shave ; help prop up the innoc littl idol ; offer him burnt biscuit with queequeg ; salam befor him twice or thrice ; kiss hi nose ; and that done , we undress and went to bed , at peac with our own conscienc and all the world . but we did not go to sleep without some littl chat . how it is I know not ; but there is no place like a bed for confidenti disclosur between friend . man and wife , they say , there open the veri bottom of their soul to each other ; and some old coupl often lie and chat over old time till nearli morn . thu , then , in our heart ' honeymoon , lay I and queequeg -- a cosi , love pair . chapter 11 nightgown . We had lain thu in bed , chat and nap at short interv , and queequeg now and then affection throw hi brown tattoo leg over mine , and then draw them back ; so entir sociabl and free and easi were we ; when , at last , by reason of our confabul , what littl nappish remain in us altogeth depart , and we felt like get up again , though day - break wa yet some way down the futur . ye , we becam veri wake ; so much so that our recumb posit began to grow wearisom , and by littl and littl we found ourselv sit up ; the cloth well tuck around us , lean against the head - board with our four knee drawn up close togeth , and our two nose bend over them , as if our kneepan were warm - pan . We felt veri nice and snug , the more so sinc it wa so chilli out of door ; inde out of bed - cloth too , see that there wa no fire in the room . the more so , I say , becaus truli to enjoy bodili warmth , some small part of you must be cold , for there is no qualiti in thi world that is not what it is mere by contrast . noth exist in itself . If you flatter yourself that you are all over comfort , and have been so a long time , then you can not be said to be comfort ani more . but if , like queequeg and me in the bed , the tip of your nose or the crown of your head be slightli chill , whi then , inde , in the gener conscious you feel most delight and unmistak warm . for thi reason a sleep apart should never be furnish with a fire , which is one of the luxuri discomfort of the rich . for the height of thi sort of delici is to have noth but the blanket between you and your snug and the cold of the outer air . then there you lie like the one warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal . We had been sit in thi crouch manner for some time , when all at onc I thought I would open my eye ; for when between sheet , whether by day or by night , and whether asleep or awak , I have a way of alway keep my eye shut , in order the more to concentr the snug of be in bed . becaus no man can ever feel hi own ident aright except hi eye be close ; as if dark were inde the proper element of our essenc , though light be more congeni to our clayey part . upon open my eye then , and come out of my own pleasant and self - creat dark into the impos and coars outer gloom of the unillumin twelv - o ' clock - at - night , I experienc a disagre revuls . nor did I at all object to the hint from queequeg that perhap it were best to strike a light , see that we were so wide awak ; and besid he felt a strong desir to have a few quiet puff from hi tomahawk . Be it said , that though I had felt such a strong repugn to hi smoke in the bed the night befor , yet see how elast our stiff prejudic grow when love onc come to bend them . for now I like noth better than to have queequeg smoke by me , even in bed , becaus he seem to be full of such seren household joy then . I no more felt unduli concern for the landlord ' s polici of insur . I wa onli aliv to the condens confidenti comfort of share a pipe and a blanket with a real friend . with our shaggi jacket drawn about our shoulder , we now pass the tomahawk from one to the other , till slowli there grew over us a blue hang tester of smoke , illumin by the flame of the new - lit lamp . whether it wa that thi undul tester roll the savag away to far distant scene , I know not , but he now spoke of hi nativ island ; and , eager to hear hi histori , I beg him to go on and tell it . He gladli compli . though at the time I but ill comprehend not a few of hi word , yet subsequ disclosur , when I had becom more familiar with hi broken phraseolog , now enabl me to present the whole stori such as it may prove in the mere skeleton I give . chapter 12 biograph . queequeg wa a nativ of rokovoko , an island far away to the west and south . It is not down in ani map ; true place never are . when a new - hatch savag run wild about hi nativ woodland in a grass clout , follow by the nibbl goat , as if he were a green sapl ; even then , in queequeg ' s ambiti soul , lurk a strong desir to see someth more of christendom than a specimen whaler or two . hi father wa a high chief , a king ; hi uncl a high priest ; and on the matern side he boast aunt who were the wive of unconquer warrior . there wa excel blood in hi vein -- royal stuff ; though sadli vitiat , I fear , by the cannib propens he nourish in hi untutor youth . A sag harbor ship visit hi father ' s bay , and queequeg sought a passag to christian land . but the ship , have her full complement of seamen , spurn hi suit ; and not all the king hi father ' s influenc could prevail . but queequeg vow a vow . alon in hi cano , he paddl off to a distant strait , which he knew the ship must pass through when she quit the island . On one side wa a coral reef ; on the other a low tongu of land , cover with mangrov thicket that grew out into the water . hide hi cano , still afloat , among these thicket , with it prow seaward , he sat down in the stern , paddl low in hand ; and when the ship wa glide by , like a flash he dart out ; gain her side ; with one backward dash of hi foot capsiz and sank hi cano ; climb up the chain ; and throw himself at full length upon the deck , grappl a ring - bolt there , and swore not to let it go , though hack in piec . In vain the captain threaten to throw him overboard ; suspend a cutlass over hi nake wrist ; queequeg wa the son of a king , and queequeg budg not . struck by hi desper dauntless , and hi wild desir to visit christendom , the captain at last relent , and told him he might make himself at home . but thi fine young savag -- thi sea princ of wale , never saw the captain ' s cabin . they put him down among the sailor , and made a whaleman of him . but like czar peter content to toil in the shipyard of foreign citi , queequeg disdain no seem ignomini , if therebi he might happili gain the power of enlighten hi untutor countrymen . for at bottom -- so he told me -- he wa actuat by a profound desir to learn among the christian , the art wherebi to make hi peopl still happier than they were ; and more than that , still better than they were . but , ala ! the practic of whalemen soon convinc him that even christian could be both miser and wick ; infinit more so , than all hi father ' s heathen . arriv at last in old sag harbor ; and see what the sailor did there ; and then go on to nantucket , and see how they spent their wage in that place also , poor queequeg gave it up for lost . thought he , it ' s a wick world in all meridian ; I ' ll die a pagan . and thu an old idol at heart , he yet live among these christian , wore their cloth , and tri to talk their gibberish . henc the queer way about him , though now some time from home . By hint , I ask him whether he did not propos go back , and have a coron ; sinc he might now consid hi father dead and gone , he be veri old and feebl at the last account . He answer no , not yet ; and ad that he wa fear christian , or rather christian , had unfit him for ascend the pure and undefil throne of thirti pagan king befor him . but by and by , he said , he would return , -- as soon as he felt himself baptiz again . for the nonc , howev , he propos to sail about , and sow hi wild oat in all four ocean . they had made a harpoon of him , and that barb iron wa in lieu of a sceptr now . I ask him what might be hi immedi purpos , touch hi futur movement . He answer , to go to sea again , in hi old vocat . upon thi , I told him that whale wa my own design , and inform him of my intent to sail out of nantucket , as be the most promis port for an adventur whaleman to embark from . He at onc resolv to accompani me to that island , ship aboard the same vessel , get into the same watch , the same boat , the same mess with me , in short to share my everi hap ; with both my hand in hi , boldli dip into the potluck of both world . To all thi I joyous assent ; for besid the affect I now felt for queequeg , he wa an experienc harpoon , and as such , could not fail to be of great use to one , who , like me , wa wholli ignor of the mysteri of whale , though well acquaint with the sea , as known to merchant seamen . hi stori be end with hi pipe ' s last die puff , queequeg embrac me , press hi forehead against mine , and blow out the light , we roll over from each other , thi way and that , and veri soon were sleep . chapter 13 wheelbarrow . next morn , monday , after dispos of the embalm head to a barber , for a block , I settl my own and comrad ' s bill ; use , howev , my comrad ' s money . the grin landlord , as well as the boarder , seem amazingli tickl at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and queequeg -- especi as peter coffin ' s cock and bull stori about him had previous so much alarm me concern the veri person whom I now compani with . We borrow a wheelbarrow , and embark our thing , includ my own poor carpet - bag , and queequeg ' s canva sack and hammock , away we went down to `` the moss , '' the littl nantucket packet schooner moor at the wharf . As we were go along the peopl stare ; not at queequeg so much -- for they were use to see cannib like him in their street , -- but at see him and me upon such confidenti term . but we heed them not , go along wheel the barrow by turn , and queequeg now and then stop to adjust the sheath on hi harpoon barb . I ask him whi he carri such a troublesom thing with him ashor , and whether all whale ship did not find their own harpoon . To thi , in substanc , he repli , that though what I hint wa true enough , yet he had a particular affect for hi own harpoon , becaus it wa of assur stuff , well tri in mani a mortal combat , and deepli intim with the heart of whale . In short , like mani inland reaper and mower , who go into the farmer ' meadow arm with their own scyth -- though in no wise oblig to furnish them -- even so , queequeg , for hi own privat reason , prefer hi own harpoon . shift the barrow from my hand to hi , he told me a funni stori about the first wheelbarrow he had ever seen . It wa in sag harbor . the owner of hi ship , it seem , had lent him one , in which to carri hi heavi chest to hi board hous . not to seem ignor about the thing -- though in truth he wa entir so , concern the precis way in which to manag the barrow -- queequeg put hi chest upon it ; lash it fast ; and then shoulder the barrow and march up the wharf . `` whi , '' said I , `` queequeg , you might have known better than that , one would think . didn ' t the peopl laugh ? '' upon thi , he told me anoth stori . the peopl of hi island of rokovoko , it seem , at their wed feast express the fragrant water of young cocoanut into a larg stain calabash like a punchbowl ; and thi punchbowl alway form the great central ornament on the braid mat where the feast is held . now a certain grand merchant ship onc touch at rokovoko , and it command -- from all account , a veri state punctili gentleman , at least for a sea captain -- thi command wa invit to the wed feast of queequeg ' s sister , a pretti young princess just turn of ten . well ; when all the wed guest were assembl at the bride ' s bamboo cottag , thi captain march in , and be assign the post of honour , place himself over against the punchbowl , and between the high priest and hi majesti the king , queequeg ' s father . grace be said , -- for those peopl have their grace as well as we -- though queequeg told me that unlik us , who at such time look downward to our platter , they , on the contrari , copi the duck , glanc upward to the great giver of all feast -- grace , I say , be said , the high priest open the banquet by the immemori ceremoni of the island ; that is , dip hi consecr and consecr finger into the bowl befor the bless beverag circul . see himself place next the priest , and note the ceremoni , and think himself -- be captain of a ship -- as have plain preced over a mere island king , especi in the king ' s own hous -- the captain coolli proce to wash hi hand in the punchbowl ; -- take it I suppos for a huge finger - glass . `` now , '' said queequeg , `` what you tink now ? -- didn ' t our peopl laugh ? '' At last , passag paid , and luggag safe , we stood on board the schooner . hoist sail , it glide down the acushnet river . On one side , new bedford rose in terrac of street , their ice - cover tree all glitter in the clear , cold air . huge hill and mountain of cask on cask were pile upon her wharv , and side by side the world - wander whale ship lay silent and safe moor at last ; while from other came a sound of carpent and cooper , with blend nois of fire and forg to melt the pitch , all betoken that new cruis were on the start ; that one most peril and long voyag end , onli begin a second ; and a second end , onli begin a third , and so on , for ever and for aye . such is the endless , yea , the intoler of all earthli effort . gain the more open water , the brace breez wax fresh ; the littl moss toss the quick foam from her bow , as a young colt hi snort . how I snuf that tartar air ! -- how I spurn that turnpik earth ! -- that common highway all over dent with the mark of slavish heel and hoof ; and turn me to admir the magnanim of the sea which will permit no record . At the same foam - fountain , queequeg seem to drink and reel with me . hi duski nostril swell apart ; he show hi file and point teeth . On , on we flew ; and our of gain , the moss did homag to the blast ; duck and dive her bow as a slave befor the sultan . sideway lean , we sideway dart ; everi ropeyarn tingl like a wire ; the two tall mast buckl like indian cane in land tornado . So full of thi reel scene were we , as we stood by the plung bowsprit , that for some time we did not notic the jeer glanc of the passeng , a lubber - like assembl , who marvel that two fellow be should be so companion ; as though a white man were anyth more dignifi than a whitewash negro . but there were some boobi and bumpkin there , who , by their intens green , must have come from the heart and centr of all verdur . queequeg caught one of these young sapl mimick him behind hi back . I thought the bumpkin ' s hour of doom wa come . drop hi harpoon , the brawni savag caught him in hi arm , and by an almost miracul dexter and strength , sent him high up bodili into the air ; then slightli tap hi stern in mid - somerset , the fellow land with burst lung upon hi feet , while queequeg , turn hi back upon him , light hi tomahawk pipe and pass it to me for a puff . `` capt ! capt ! yell the bumpkin , run toward that offic ; `` capt , capt , here ' s the devil . '' `` hallo , you sir , '' cri the captain , a gaunt rib of the sea , stalk up to queequeg , `` what in thunder do you mean by that ? don ' t you know you might have kill that chap ? '' `` what him say ? '' said queequeg , as he mildli turn to me . `` He say , '' said I , `` that you came near kill - e that man there , '' point to the still shiver greenhorn . `` kill - e , '' cri queequeg , twist hi tattoo face into an unearthli express of disdain , `` ah ! him bevi small - e fish - e ; queequeg no kill - e so small - e fish - e ; queequeg kill - e big whale ! '' `` look you , '' roar the captain , `` I ' ll kill - e you , you cannib , if you tri ani more of your trick aboard here ; so mind your eye . '' but it so happen just then , that it wa high time for the captain to mind hi own eye . the prodigi strain upon the main - sail had part the weather - sheet , and the tremend boom wa now fli from side to side , complet sweep the entir after part of the deck . the poor fellow whom queequeg had handl so roughli , wa swept overboard ; all hand were in a panic ; and to attempt snatch at the boom to stay it , seem mad . It flew from right to left , and back again , almost in one tick of a watch , and everi instant seem on the point of snap into splinter . noth wa done , and noth seem capabl of be done ; those on deck rush toward the bow , and stood eye the boom as if it were the lower jaw of an exasper whale . In the midst of thi constern , queequeg drop deftli to hi knee , and crawl under the path of the boom , whip hold of a rope , secur one end to the bulwark , and then fling the other like a lasso , caught it round the boom as it swept over hi head , and at the next jerk , the spar wa that way trap , and all wa safe . the schooner wa run into the wind , and while the hand were clear away the stern boat , queequeg , strip to the waist , dart from the side with a long live arc of a leap . for three minut or more he wa seen swim like a dog , throw hi long arm straight out befor him , and by turn reveal hi brawni shoulder through the freez foam . I look at the grand and gloriou fellow , but saw no one to be save . the greenhorn had gone down . shoot himself perpendicularli from the water , queequeg , now took an instant ' s glanc around him , and seem to see just how matter were , dive down and disappear . A few minut more , and he rose again , one arm still strike out , and with the other drag a lifeless form . the boat soon pick them up . the poor bumpkin wa restor . all hand vote queequeg a nobl trump ; the captain beg hi pardon . from that hour I clove to queequeg like a barnacl ; yea , till poor queequeg took hi last long dive . wa there ever such unconsci ? He did not seem to think that he at all deserv a medal from the human and magnanim societi . He onli ask for water -- fresh water -- someth to wipe the brine off ; that done , he put on dri cloth , light hi pipe , and lean against the bulwark , and mildli eye those around him , seem to be say to himself -- '' It ' s a mutual , joint - stock world , in all meridian . We cannib must help these christian . '' chapter 14 nantucket . noth more happen on the passag worthi the mention ; so , after a fine run , we safe arriv in nantucket . nantucket ! take out your map and look at it . see what a real corner of the world it occupi ; how it stand there , away off shore , more lone than the eddyston lighthous . look at it -- a mere hillock , and elbow of sand ; all beach , without a background . there is more sand there than you would use in twenti year as a substitut for blot paper . some gamesom wight will tell you that they have to plant weed there , they don ' t grow natur ; that they import canada thistl ; that they have to send beyond sea for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask ; that piec of wood in nantucket are carri about like bit of the true cross in rome ; that peopl there plant toadstool befor their hous , to get under the shade in summer time ; that one blade of grass make an oasi , three blade in a day ' s walk a prairi ; that they wear quicksand shoe , someth like lapland snow - shoe ; that they are so shut up , belt about , everi way inclos , surround , and made an utter island of by the ocean , that to their veri chair and tabl small clam will sometim be found adher , as to the back of sea turtl . but these extravaganza onli show that nantucket is no illinoi . look now at the wondrou tradit stori of how thi island wa settl by the red - men . thu goe the legend . In olden time an eagl swoop down upon the new england coast , and carri off an infant indian in hi talon . with loud lament the parent saw their child born out of sight over the wide water . they resolv to follow in the same direct . set out in their cano , after a peril passag they discov the island , and there they found an empti ivori casket , -- the poor littl indian ' s skeleton . what wonder , then , that these nantucket , born on a beach , should take to the sea for a livelihood ! they first caught crab and quohog in the sand ; grown bolder , they wade out with net for mackerel ; more experienc , they push off in boat and captur cod ; and at last , launch a navi of great ship on the sea , explor thi wateri world ; put an incess belt of circumnavig round it ; peep in at behr ' s strait ; and in all season and all ocean declar everlast war with the mightiest anim mass that ha surviv the flood ; most monstrou and most mountain ! that himmalehan , salt - sea mastodon , cloth with such portent of unconsci power , that hi veri panic are more to be dread than hi most fearless and malici assault ! and thu have these nake nantucket , these sea hermit , issu from their ant - hill in the sea , overrun and conquer the wateri world like so mani alexand ; parcel out among them the atlant , pacif , and indian ocean , as the three pirat power did poland . let america add mexico to texa , and pile cuba upon canada ; let the english overswarm all india , and hang out their blaze banner from the sun ; two third of thi terraqu globe are the nantucket ' s . for the sea is hi ; he own it , as emperor own empir ; other seamen have but a right of way through it . merchant ship are but extens bridg ; arm one but float fort ; even pirat and privat , though follow the sea as highwaymen the road , they but plunder other ship , other fragment of the land like themselv , without seek to draw their live from the bottomless deep itself . the nantucket , he alon resid and riot on the sea ; he alon , in bibl languag , goe down to it in ship ; to and fro plough it as hi own special plantat . there is hi home ; there lie hi busi , which a noah ' s flood would not interrupt , though it overwhelm all the million in china . He live on the sea , as prairi cock in the prairi ; he hide among the wave , he climb them as chamoi hunter climb the alp . for year he know not the land ; so that when he come to it at last , it smell like anoth world , more strang than the moon would to an earthsman . with the landless gull , that at sunset fold her wing and is rock to sleep between billow ; so at nightfal , the nantucket , out of sight of land , furl hi sail , and lay him to hi rest , while under hi veri pillow rush herd of walrus and whale . chapter 15 chowder . It wa quit late in the even when the littl moss came snugli to anchor , and queequeg and I went ashor ; so we could attend to no busi that day , at least none but a supper and a bed . the landlord of the spouter - inn had recommend us to hi cousin hosea hussey of the tri pot , whom he assert to be the proprietor of one of the best kept hotel in all nantucket , and moreov he had assur us that cousin hosea , as he call him , wa famou for hi chowder . In short , he plainli hint that we could not possibl do better than tri pot - luck at the tri pot . but the direct he had given us about keep a yellow warehous on our starboard hand till we open a white church to the larboard , and then keep that on the larboard hand till we made a corner three point to the starboard , and that done , then ask the first man we met where the place wa : these crook direct of hi veri much puzzl us at first , especi as , at the outset , queequeg insist that the yellow warehous -- our first point of departur -- must be left on the larboard hand , wherea I had understood peter coffin to say it wa on the starboard . howev , by dint of beat about a littl in the dark , and now and then knock up a peaceabl inhabit to inquir the way , we at last came to someth which there wa no mistak . two enorm wooden pot paint black , and suspend by ass ' ear , swung from the cross - tree of an old top - mast , plant in front of an old doorway . the horn of the cross - tree were saw off on the other side , so that thi old top - mast look not a littl like a gallow . perhap I wa over sensit to such impress at the time , but I could not help stare at thi gallow with a vagu misgiv . A sort of crick wa in my neck as I gaze up to the two remain horn ; ye , two of them , one for queequeg , and one for me . It ' s omin , think I . A coffin my innkeep upon land in my first whale port ; tombston stare at me in the whalemen ' s chapel ; and here a gallow ! and a pair of prodigi black pot too ! are these last throw out obliqu hint touch tophet ? I wa call from these reflect by the sight of a freckl woman with yellow hair and a yellow gown , stand in the porch of the inn , under a dull red lamp swing there , that look much like an injur eye , and carri on a brisk scold with a man in a purpl woollen shirt . `` get along with ye , '' said she to the man , `` or I ' ll be comb ye ! '' `` come on , queequeg , '' said I , `` all right . there ' s mr . hussey . '' and so it turn out ; Mr . hosea hussey be from home , but leav mr . hussey entir compet to attend to all hi affair . upon make known our desir for a supper and a bed , mr . hussey , postpon further scold for the present , usher us into a littl room , and seat us at a tabl spread with the relic of a recent conclud repast , turn round to us and said -- '' clam or cod ? '' `` what ' s that about cod , ma ' am ? '' said I , with much polit . `` clam or cod ? '' she repeat . `` A clam for supper ? a cold clam ; is that what you mean , mr . hussey ? '' say I , `` but that ' s a rather cold and clammi recept in the winter time , ain ' t it , mr . hussey ? '' but be in a great hurri to resum scold the man in the purpl shirt , who wa wait for it in the entri , and seem to hear noth but the word `` clam , '' mr . hussey hurri toward an open door lead to the kitchen , and bawl out `` clam for two , '' disappear . `` queequeg , '' said I , `` do you think that we can make out a supper for us both on one clam ? '' howev , a warm savori steam from the kitchen serv to beli the appar cheerless prospect befor us . but when that smoke chowder came in , the mysteri wa delight explain . Oh , sweet friend ! hearken to me . It wa made of small juici clam , scarc bigger than hazel nut , mix with pound ship biscuit , and salt pork cut up into littl flake ; the whole enrich with butter , and plenti season with pepper and salt . our appetit be sharpen by the frosti voyag , and in particular , queequeg see hi favourit fish food befor him , and the chowder be surpassingli excel , we despatch it with great expedit : when lean back a moment and bethink me of mr . hussey ' s clam and cod announc , I thought I would tri a littl experi . step to the kitchen door , I utter the word `` cod `` with great emphasi , and resum my seat . In a few moment the savouri steam came forth again , but with a differ flavor , and in good time a fine cod - chowder wa place befor us . We resum busi ; and while pli our spoon in the bowl , think I to myself , I wonder now if thi here ha ani effect on the head ? what ' s that stultifi say about chowder - head peopl ? `` but look , queequeg , ain ' t that a live eel in your bowl ? where ' s your harpoon ? '' fishiest of all fishi place wa the tri pot , which well deserv it name ; for the pot there were alway boil chowder . chowder for breakfast , and chowder for dinner , and chowder for supper , till you began to look for fish - bone come through your cloth . the area befor the hous wa pave with clam - shell . mr . hussey wore a polish necklac of codfish vertebra ; and hosea hussey had hi account book bound in superior old shark - skin . there wa a fishi flavor to the milk , too , which I could not at all account for , till one morn happen to take a stroll along the beach among some fishermen ' s boat , I saw hosea ' s brindl cow feed on fish remnant , and march along the sand with each foot in a cod ' s decapit head , look veri slip - shod , I assur ye . supper conclud , we receiv a lamp , and direct from mr . hussey concern the nearest way to bed ; but , as queequeg wa about to preced me up the stair , the ladi reach forth her arm , and demand hi harpoon ; she allow no harpoon in her chamber . `` whi not ? said I ; `` everi true whaleman sleep with hi harpoon -- but whi not ? '' `` becaus it ' s danger , '' say she . `` ever sinc young stigg come from that unfort ' nt v ' y ' ge of hi , when he wa gone four year and a half , with onli three barrel of ile , wa found dead in my first floor back , with hi harpoon in hi side ; ever sinc then I allow no boarder to take sich danger weepon in their room at night . So , Mr . queequeg `` ( for she had learn hi name ) , `` I will just take thi here iron , and keep it for you till morn . but the chowder ; clam or cod to - morrow for breakfast , men ? '' `` both , '' say I ; `` and let ' s have a coupl of smoke her by way of varieti . '' chapter 16 the ship . In bed we concoct our plan for the morrow . but to my surpris and no small concern , queequeg now gave me to understand , that he had been dilig consult yojo -- the name of hi black littl god -- and yojo had told him two or three time over , and strongli insist upon it everyway , that instead of our go togeth among the whale - fleet in harbor , and in concert select our craft ; instead of thi , I say , yojo earnestli enjoin that the select of the ship should rest wholli with me , inasmuch as yojo purpos befriend us ; and , in order to do so , had alreadi pitch upon a vessel , which , if left to myself , I , ishmael , should infal light upon , for all the world as though it had turn out by chanc ; and in that vessel I must immedi ship myself , for the present irrespect of queequeg . I have forgotten to mention that , in mani thing , queequeg place great confid in the excel of yojo ' s judgment and surpris forecast of thing ; and cherish yojo with consider esteem , as a rather good sort of god , who perhap meant well enough upon the whole , but in all case did not succeed in hi benevol design . now , thi plan of queequeg ' s , or rather yojo ' s , touch the select of our craft ; I did not like that plan at all . I had not a littl reli upon queequeg ' s sagac to point out the whaler best fit to carri us and our fortun secur . but as all my remonstr produc no effect upon queequeg , I wa oblig to acquiesc ; and accordingli prepar to set about thi busi with a determin rush sort of energi and vigor , that should quickli settl that trifl littl affair . next morn earli , leav queequeg shut up with yojo in our littl bedroom -- for it seem that it wa some sort of lent or ramadan , or day of fast , humili , and prayer with queequeg and yojo that day ; how it wa I never could find out , for , though I appli myself to it sever time , I never could master hi liturgi and xxxix articl -- leav queequeg , then , fast on hi tomahawk pipe , and yojo warm himself at hi sacrifici fire of shave , I salli out among the ship . after much prolong saunter and mani random inquiri , I learnt that there were three ship up for three - year ' voyag -- the devil - dam , the tit - bit , and the pequod . devil - dam , I do not know the origin of ; tit - bit is obviou ; pequod , you will no doubt rememb , wa the name of a celebr tribe of massachusett indian ; now extinct as the ancient mede . I peer and pri about the devil - dam ; from her , hop over to the tit - bit ; and final , go on board the pequod , look around her for a moment , and then decid that thi wa the veri ship for us . you may have seen mani a quaint craft in your day , for aught I know ; -- squar - to lugger ; mountain japanes junk ; butter - box galliot , and what not ; but take my word for it , you never saw such a rare old craft as thi same rare old pequod . she wa a ship of the old school , rather small if anyth ; with an old - fashion claw - foot look about her . long season and weather - stain in the typhoon and calm of all four ocean , her old hull ' s complexion wa darken like a french grenadi ' s , who ha alik fought in egypt and siberia . her vener bow look beard . her mast -- cut somewher on the coast of japan , where her origin one were lost overboard in a gale -- her mast stood stiffli up like the spine of the three old king of cologn . her ancient deck were worn and wrinkl , like the pilgrim - worship flag - stone in canterburi cathedr where becket bled . but to all these her old antiqu , were ad new and marvel featur , pertain to the wild busi that for more than half a centuri she had follow . old captain peleg , mani year her chief - mate , befor he command anoth vessel of hi own , and now a retir seaman , and one of the princip owner of the pequod , -- thi old peleg , dure the term of hi chief - mateship , had built upon her origin grotesqu , and inlaid it , all over , with a quaint both of materi and devic , unmatch by anyth except it be thorkil - hake ' s carv buckler or bedstead . she wa apparel like ani barbar ethiopian emperor , hi neck heavi with pendant of polish ivori . she wa a thing of trophi . A cannib of a craft , trick herself forth in the chase bone of her enemi . all round , her unpanel , open bulwark were garnish like one continu jaw , with the long sharp teeth of the sperm whale , insert there for pin , to fasten her old hempen thew and tendon to . those thew ran not through base block of land wood , but deftli travel over sheav of sea - ivori . scorn a turnstil wheel at her reverend helm , she sport there a tiller ; and that tiller wa in one mass , curious carv from the long narrow lower jaw of her hereditari foe . the helmsman who steer by that tiller in a tempest , felt like the tartar , when he hold back hi fieri steed by clutch it jaw . A nobl craft , but somehow a most melancholi ! all nobl thing are touch with that . now when I look about the quarter - deck , for some one have author , in order to propos myself as a candid for the voyag , at first I saw nobodi ; but I could not well overlook a strang sort of tent , or rather wigwam , pitch a littl behind the main - mast . It seem onli a temporari erect use in port . It wa of a conic shape , some ten feet high ; consist of the long , huge slab of limber black bone taken from the middl and highest part of the jaw of the right - whale . plant with their broad end on the deck , a circl of these slab lace togeth , mutual slope toward each other , and at the apex unit in a tuft point , where the loos hairi fibr wave to and fro like the top - knot on some old pottowottami sachem ' s head . A triangular open face toward the bow of the ship , so that the insid command a complet view forward . and half conceal in thi queer tenement , I at length found one who by hi aspect seem to have author ; and who , it be noon , and the ship ' s work suspend , wa now enjoy respit from the burden of command . He wa seat on an old - fashion oaken chair , wriggl all over with curiou carv ; and the bottom of which wa form of a stout interlac of the same elast stuff of which the wigwam wa construct . there wa noth so veri particular , perhap , about the appear of the elderli man I saw ; he wa brown and brawni , like most old seamen , and heavili roll up in blue pilot - cloth , cut in the quaker style ; onli there wa a fine and almost microscop net - work of the minutest wrinkl interlac round hi eye , which must have arisen from hi continu sail in mani hard gale , and alway look to windward ; -- for thi caus the muscl about the eye to becom purs togeth . such eye - wrinkl are veri effectu in a scowl . `` Is thi the captain of the pequod ? '' said I , advanc to the door of the tent . `` suppos it be the captain of the pequod , what dost thou want of him ? '' he demand . `` I wa think of ship . '' `` thou wast , wast thou ? I see thou art no nantucket -- ever been in a stove boat ? '' `` No , sir , I never have . '' `` dost know noth at all about whale , I dare say -- eh ? `` noth , sir ; but I have no doubt I shall soon learn . I ' ve been sever voyag in the merchant servic , and I think that -- '' `` merchant servic be damn . talk not that lingo to me . dost see that leg ? -- I ' ll take that leg away from thi stern , if ever thou talkest of the marchant servic to me again . marchant servic inde ! I suppos now ye feel consider proud of have serv in those marchant ship . but fluke ! man , what make thee want to go a whale , eh ? -- it look a littl suspici , don ' t it , eh ? -- hast not been a pirat , hast thou ? -- didst not rob thi last captain , didst thou ? -- dost not think of murder the offic when thou gettest to sea ? '' I protest my innoc of these thing . I saw that under the mask of these half humor innuendo , thi old seaman , as an insul quakerish nantucket , wa full of hi insular prejudic , and rather distrust of all alien , unless they hail from cape cod or the vineyard . `` but what take thee a - whale ? I want to know that befor I think of ship ye . '' `` well , sir , I want to see what whale is . I want to see the world . '' `` want to see what whale is , eh ? have ye clap eye on captain ahab ? '' `` who is captain ahab , sir ? '' `` aye , aye , I thought so . captain ahab is the captain of thi ship . '' `` I am mistaken then . I thought I wa speak to the captain himself . '' `` thou art speak to captain peleg -- that ' s who ye are speak to , young man . It belong to me and captain bildad to see the pequod fit out for the voyag , and suppli with all her need , includ crew . We are part owner and agent . but as I wa go to say , if thou wantest to know what whale is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of find it out befor ye bind yourself to it , past back out . clap eye on captain ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he ha onli one leg . '' `` what do you mean , sir ? wa the other one lost by a whale ? '' `` lost by a whale ! young man , come nearer to me : it wa devour , chew up , crunch by the monstrousest parmacetti that ever chip a boat ! -- ah , ah ! '' I wa a littl alarm by hi energi , perhap also a littl touch at the hearti grief in hi conclud exclam , but said as calmli as I could , `` what you say is no doubt true enough , sir ; but how could I know there wa ani peculiar feroc in that particular whale , though inde I might have infer as much from the simpl fact of the accid . '' `` look ye now , young man , thi lung are a sort of soft , d ' ye see ; thou dost not talk shark a bit . sure , ye ' ve been to sea befor now ; sure of that ? '' `` sir , '' said I , `` I thought I told you that I had been four voyag in the merchant -- '' `` hard down out of that ! mind what I said about the marchant servic -- don ' t aggrav me -- I won ' t have it . but let us understand each other . I have given thee a hint about what whale is ; do ye yet feel inclin for it ? '' `` I do , sir . '' `` veri good . now , art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale ' s throat , and then jump after it ? answer , quick ! '' `` I am , sir , if it should be posit indispens to do so ; not to be got rid of , that is ; which I don ' t take to be the fact . '' `` good again . now then , thou not onli wantest to go a - whale , to find out by experi what whale is , but ye also want to go in order to see the world ? wa not that what ye said ? I thought so . well then , just step forward there , and take a peep over the weather - bow , and then back to me and tell me what ye see there . '' for a moment I stood a littl puzzl by thi curiou request , not know exactli how to take it , whether humor or in earnest . but concentr all hi crow ' s feet into one scowl , captain peleg start me on the errand . go forward and glanc over the weather bow , I perceiv that the ship swing to her anchor with the flood - tide , wa now obliqu point toward the open ocean . the prospect wa unlimit , but exceedingli monoton and forbid ; not the slightest varieti that I could see . `` well , what ' s the report ? '' said peleg when I came back ; `` what did ye see ? '' `` not much , '' I repli -- '' noth but water ; consider horizon though , and there ' s a squall come up , I think . '' `` well , what doe thou think then of see the world ? Do ye wish to go round cape horn to see ani more of it , eh ? can ' t ye see the world where you stand ? '' I wa a littl stagger , but go a - whale I must , and I would ; and the pequod wa as good a ship as ani -- I thought the best -- and all thi I now repeat to peleg . see me so determin , he express hi willing to ship me . `` and thou mayest as well sign the paper right off , '' he ad -- '' come along with ye . '' and so say , he led the way below deck into the cabin . seat on the transom wa what seem to me a most uncommon and surpris figur . It turn out to be captain bildad , who along with captain peleg wa one of the largest owner of the vessel ; the other share , as is sometim the case in these port , be held by a crowd of old annuit ; widow , fatherless children , and chanceri ward ; each own about the valu of a timber head , or a foot of plank , or a nail or two in the ship . peopl in nantucket invest their money in whale vessel , the same way that you do your in approv state stock bring in good interest . now , bildad , like peleg , and inde mani other nantucket , wa a quaker , the island have been origin settl by that sect ; and to thi day it inhabit in gener retain in an uncommon measur the peculiar of the quaker , onli various and anomal modifi by thing altogeth alien and heterogen . for some of these same quaker are the most sanguinari of all sailor and whale - hunter . they are fight quaker ; they are quaker with a vengeanc . So that there are instanc among them of men , who , name with scriptur name -- a singularli common fashion on the island -- and in childhood natur imbib the state dramat thee and thou of the quaker idiom ; still , from the audaci , dare , and boundless adventur of their subsequ live , strang blend with these unoutgrown peculiar , a thousand bold dash of charact , not unworthi a scandinavian sea - king , or a poetic pagan roman . and when these thing unit in a man of greatli superior natur forc , with a globular brain and a ponder heart ; who ha also by the still and seclus of mani long night - watch in the remotest water , and beneath constel never seen here at the north , been led to think untradit and independ ; receiv all natur ' s sweet or savag impress fresh from her own virgin voluntari and confid breast , and therebi chiefli , but with some help from accident advantag , to learn a bold and nervou lofti languag -- that man make one in a whole nation ' s censu -- a mighti pageant creatur , form for nobl tragedi . nor will it at all detract from him , dramat regard , if either by birth or other circumst , he have what seem a half wil overrul morbid at the bottom of hi natur . for all men tragic great are made so through a certain morbid . Be sure of thi , O young ambit , all mortal great is but diseas . but , as yet we have not to do with such an one , but with quit anoth ; and still a man , who , if inde peculiar , it onli result again from anoth phase of the quaker , modifi by individu circumst . like captain peleg , captain bildad wa a well - to - do , retir whaleman . but unlik captain peleg -- who care not a rush for what are call seriou thing , and inde deem those self - same seriou thing the veriest of all trifl -- captain bildad had not onli been origin educ accord to the strictest sect of nantucket quaker , but all hi subsequ ocean life , and the sight of mani unclad , love island creatur , round the horn -- all that had not move thi nativ born quaker one singl jot , had not so much as alter one angl of hi vest . still , for all thi immut , wa there some lack of common consist about worthi captain peleg . though refus , from conscienti scrupl , to bear arm against land invad , yet himself had illimit invad the atlant and pacif ; and though a sworn foe to human bloodsh , yet had he in hi straight - bodi coat , spill tun upon tun of leviathan gore . how now in the contempl even of hi day , the piou bildad reconcil these thing in the reminisc , I do not know ; but it did not seem to concern him much , and veri probabl he had long sinc come to the sage and sensibl conclus that a man ' s religion is one thing , and thi practic world quit anoth . thi world pay dividend . rise from a littl cabin - boy in short cloth of the drabbest drab , to a harpoon in a broad shad - belli waistcoat ; from that becom boat - header , chief - mate , and captain , and final a ship owner ; bildad , as I hint befor , had conclud hi adventur career by wholli retir from activ life at the goodli age of sixti , and dedic hi remain day to the quiet receiv of hi well - earn incom . now , bildad , I am sorri to say , had the reput of be an incorrig old hunk , and in hi sea - go day , a bitter , hard task - master . they told me in nantucket , though it certainli seem a curiou stori , that when he sail the old categut whaleman , hi crew , upon arriv home , were mostli all carri ashor to the hospit , sore exhaust and worn out . for a piou man , especi for a quaker , he wa certainli rather hard - heart , to say the least . He never use to swear , though , at hi men , they said ; but somehow he got an inordin quantiti of cruel , unmitig hard work out of them . when bildad wa a chief - mate , to have hi drab - colour eye intent look at you , made you feel complet nervou , till you could clutch someth -- a hammer or a marl - spike , and go to work like mad , at someth or other , never mind what . indol and idl perish befor him . hi own person wa the exact embodi of hi utilitarian charact . On hi long , gaunt bodi , he carri no spare flesh , no superflu beard , hi chin have a soft , econom nap to it , like the worn nap of hi broad - brim hat . such , then , wa the person that I saw seat on the transom when I follow captain peleg down into the cabin . the space between the deck wa small ; and there , bolt - upright , sat old bildad , who alway sat so , and never lean , and thi to save hi coat tail . hi broad - brim wa place besid him ; hi leg were stiffli cross ; hi drab vestur wa button up to hi chin ; and spectacl on nose , he seem absorb in read from a ponder volum . `` bildad , '' cri captain peleg , `` at it again , bildad , eh ? Ye have been studi those scriptur , now , for the last thirti year , to my certain knowledg . how far ye got , bildad ? '' As if long habitu to such profan talk from hi old shipmat , bildad , without notic hi present irrever , quietli look up , and see me , glanc again inquiringli toward peleg . `` He say he ' s our man , bildad , '' said peleg , `` he want to ship . '' `` dost thee ? '' said bildad , in a hollow tone , and turn round to me . `` I dost , '' said I unconsci , he wa so intens a quaker . `` what do ye think of him , bildad ? '' said peleg . `` He ' ll do , '' said bildad , eye me , and then went on spell away at hi book in a mumbl tone quit audibl . I thought him the queerest old quaker I ever saw , especi as peleg , hi friend and old shipmat , seem such a bluster . but I said noth , onli look round me sharpli . peleg now threw open a chest , and draw forth the ship ' s articl , place pen and ink befor him , and seat himself at a littl tabl . I began to think it wa high time to settl with myself at what term I would be will to engag for the voyag . I wa alreadi awar that in the whale busi they paid no wage ; but all hand , includ the captain , receiv certain share of the profit call lay , and that these lay were proport to the degre of import pertain to the respect duti of the ship ' s compani . I wa also awar that be a green hand at whale , my own lay would not be veri larg ; but consid that I wa use to the sea , could steer a ship , splice a rope , and all that , I made no doubt that from all I had heard I should be offer at least the 275th lay -- that is , the 275th part of the clear net proce of the voyag , whatev that might eventu amount to . and though the 275th lay wa what they call a rather long lay , yet it wa better than noth ; and if we had a lucki voyag , might pretti nearli pay for the cloth I would wear out on it , not to speak of my three year ' beef and board , for which I would not have to pay one stiver . It might be thought that thi wa a poor way to accumul a princ fortun -- and so it wa , a veri poor way inde . but I am one of those that never take on about princ fortun , and am quit content if the world is readi to board and lodg me , while I am put up at thi grim sign of the thunder cloud . upon the whole , I thought that the 275th lay would be about the fair thing , but would not have been surpris had I been offer the 200th , consid I wa of a broad - shoulder make . but one thing , nevertheless , that made me a littl distrust about receiv a gener share of the profit wa thi : ashor , I had heard someth of both captain peleg and hi unaccount old croni bildad ; how that they be the princip proprietor of the pequod , therefor the other and more inconsider and scatter owner , left nearli the whole manag of the ship ' s affair to these two . and I did not know but what the stingi old bildad might have a mighti deal to say about ship hand , especi as I now found him on board the pequod , quit at home there in the cabin , and read hi bibl as if at hi own firesid . now while peleg wa vainli tri to mend a pen with hi jack - knife , old bildad , to my no small surpris , consid that he wa such an interest parti in these proceed ; bildad never heed us , but went on mumbl to himself out of hi book , `` lay not up for yourselv treasur upon earth , where moth -- '' `` well , captain bildad , '' interrupt peleg , `` what d ' ye say , what lay shall we give thi young man ? '' `` thou knowest best , '' wa the sepulchr repli , `` the seven hundr and seventi - seventh wouldn ' t be too much , would it ? -- ' where moth and rust do corrupt , but lay -- ' '' lay , inde , thought I , and such a lay ! the seven hundr and seventi - seventh ! well , old bildad , you are determin that I , for one , shall not lay up mani lay here below , where moth and rust do corrupt . It wa an exceedingli long lay that , inde ; and though from the magnitud of the figur it might at first deceiv a landsman , yet the slightest consider will show that though seven hundr and seventi - seven is a pretti larg number , yet , when you come to make a teenth of it , you will then see , I say , that the seven hundr and seventi - seventh part of a farth is a good deal less than seven hundr and seventi - seven gold doubloon ; and so I thought at the time . `` whi , blast your eye , bildad , '' cri peleg , `` thou dost not want to swindl thi young man ! he must have more than that . '' `` seven hundr and seventi - seventh , '' again said bildad , without lift hi eye ; and then went on mumbl -- '' for where your treasur is , there will your heart be also . '' `` I am go to put him down for the three hundredth , '' said peleg , `` do ye hear that , bildad ! the three hundredth lay , I say . '' bildad laid down hi book , and turn solemnli toward him said , `` captain peleg , thou hast a gener heart ; but thou must consid the duti thou owest to the other owner of thi ship -- widow and orphan , mani of them -- and that if we too abundantli reward the labor of thi young man , we may be take the bread from those widow and those orphan . the seven hundr and seventi - seventh lay , captain peleg . '' `` thou bildad ! '' roar peleg , start up and clatter about the cabin . `` blast ye , captain bildad , if I had follow thi advic in these matter , I would afor now had a conscienc to lug about that would be heavi enough to founder the largest ship that ever sail round cape horn . '' `` captain peleg , '' said bildad steadili , `` thi conscienc may be draw ten inch of water , or ten fathom , I can ' t tell ; but as thou art still an impenit man , captain peleg , I greatli fear lest thi conscienc be but a leaki one ; and will in the end sink thee founder down to the fieri pit , captain peleg . '' `` fieri pit ! fieri pit ! ye insult me , man ; past all natur bear , ye insult me . It ' s an all - fire outrag to tell ani human creatur that he ' s bound to hell . fluke and flame ! bildad , say that again to me , and start my soul - bolt , but I ' ll -- I ' ll -- ye , I ' ll swallow a live goat with all hi hair and horn on . out of the cabin , ye cant , drab - colour son of a wooden gun -- a straight wake with ye ! '' As he thunder out thi he made a rush at bildad , but with a marvel obliqu , slide celer , bildad for that time elud him . alarm at thi terribl outburst between the two princip and respons owner of the ship , and feel half a mind to give up all idea of sail in a vessel so question own and temporarili command , I step asid from the door to give egress to bildad , who , I made no doubt , wa all eager to vanish from befor the awaken wrath of peleg . but to my astonish , he sat down again on the transom veri quietli , and seem to have not the slightest intent of withdraw . He seem quit use to impenit peleg and hi way . As for peleg , after let off hi rage as he had , there seem no more left in him , and he , too , sat down like a lamb , though he twitch a littl as if still nervous agit . `` whew ! '' he whistl at last -- '' the squall ' s gone off to leeward , I think . bildad , thou use to be good at sharpen a lanc , mend that pen , will ye . My jack - knife here need the grindston . that ' s he ; thank ye , bildad . now then , my young man , ishmael ' s thi name , didn ' t ye say ? well then , down ye go here , ishmael , for the three hundredth lay . '' `` captain peleg , '' said I , `` I have a friend with me who want to ship too -- shall I bring him down to - morrow ? '' `` To be sure , '' said peleg . `` fetch him along , and we ' ll look at him . '' `` what lay doe he want ? '' groan bildad , glanc up from the book in which he had again been buri himself . `` Oh ! never thee mind about that , bildad , '' said peleg . `` ha he ever whale it ani ? '' turn to me . `` kill more whale than I can count , captain peleg . '' `` well , bring him along then . '' and , after sign the paper , off I went ; noth doubt but that I had done a good morn ' s work , and that the pequod wa the ident ship that yojo had provid to carri queequeg and me round the cape . but I had not proceed far , when I began to bethink me that the captain with whom I wa to sail yet remain unseen by me ; though , inde , in mani case , a whale - ship will be complet fit out , and receiv all her crew on board , ere the captain make himself visibl by arriv to take command ; for sometim these voyag are so prolong , and the shore interv at home so exceedingli brief , that if the captain have a famili , or ani absorb concern of that sort , he doe not troubl himself much about hi ship in port , but leav her to the owner till all is readi for sea . howev , it is alway as well to have a look at him befor irrevoc commit yourself into hi hand . turn back I accost captain peleg , inquir where captain ahab wa to be found . `` and what dost thou want of captain ahab ? It ' s all right enough ; thou art ship . '' `` ye , but I should like to see him . '' `` but I don ' t think thou wilt be abl to at present . I don ' t know exactli what ' s the matter with him ; but he keep close insid the hous ; a sort of sick , and yet he don ' t look so . In fact , he ain ' t sick ; but no , he isn ' t well either . ani how , young man , he won ' t alway see me , so I don ' t suppos he will thee . He ' s a queer man , captain ahab -- so some think -- but a good one . Oh , thou ' lt like him well enough ; no fear , no fear . He ' s a grand , ungodli , god - like man , captain ahab ; doesn ' t speak much ; but , when he doe speak , then you may well listen . mark ye , be forewarn ; ahab ' s abov the common ; ahab ' s been in colleg , as well as ' mong the cannib ; been use to deeper wonder than the wave ; fix hi fieri lanc in mightier , stranger foe than whale . hi lanc ! aye , the keenest and the surest that out of all our isl ! Oh ! he ain ' t captain bildad ; no , and he ain ' t captain peleg ; HE ' S ahab , boy ; and ahab of old , thou knowest , wa a crown king ! '' `` and a veri vile one . when that wick king wa slain , the dog , did they not lick hi blood ? '' `` come hither to me -- hither , hither , '' said peleg , with a signific in hi eye that almost startl me . `` look ye , lad ; never say that on board the pequod . never say it anywher . captain ahab did not name himself . ' twa a foolish , ignor whim of hi crazi , widow mother , who die when he wa onli a twelvemonth old . and yet the old squaw tistig , at gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophet . and , perhap , other fool like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know captain ahab well ; I ' ve sail with him as mate year ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a piou , good man , like bildad , but a swear good man -- someth like me -- onli there ' s a good deal more of him . aye , aye , I know that he wa never veri jolli ; and I know that on the passag home , he wa a littl out of hi mind for a spell ; but it wa the sharp shoot pain in hi bleed stump that brought that about , as ani one might see . I know , too , that ever sinc he lost hi leg last voyag by that accurs whale , he ' s been a kind of moodi -- desper moodi , and savag sometim ; but that will all pass off . and onc for all , let me tell thee and assur thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moodi good captain than a laugh bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not captain ahab , becaus he happen to have a wick name . besid , my boy , he ha a wife -- not three voyag wed -- a sweet , resign girl . think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man ha a child : hold ye then there can be ani utter , hopeless harm in ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blast , if he be , ahab ha hi human ! '' As I walk away , I wa full of thought ; what had been incident reveal to me of captain ahab , fill me with a certain wild vagu of pain concern him . and somehow , at the time , I felt a sympathi and a sorrow for him , but for I don ' t know what , unless it wa the cruel loss of hi leg . and yet I also felt a strang awe of him ; but that sort of awe , which I can not at all describ , wa not exactli awe ; I do not know what it wa . but I felt it ; and it did not disinclin me toward him ; though I felt impati at what seem like mysteri in him , so imperfectli as he wa known to me then . howev , my thought were at length carri in other direct , so that for the present dark ahab slip my mind . chapter 17 the ramadan . As queequeg ' s ramadan , or fast and humili , wa to continu all day , I did not choos to disturb him till toward night - fall ; for I cherish the greatest respect toward everybodi ' s religi oblig , never mind how comic , and could not find it in my heart to undervalu even a congreg of ant worship a toad - stool ; or those other creatur in certain part of our earth , who with a degre of footman quit unpreced in other planet , bow down befor the torso of a deceas land proprietor mere on account of the inordin possess yet own and rent in hi name . I say , we good presbyterian christian should be charit in these thing , and not fanci ourselv so vastli superior to other mortal , pagan and what not , becaus of their half - crazi conceit on these subject . there wa queequeg , now , certainli entertain the most absurd notion about yojo and hi ramadan ; -- but what of that ? queequeg thought he knew what he wa about , I suppos ; he seem to be content ; and there let him rest . all our argu with him would not avail ; let him be , I say : and heaven have merci on us all -- presbyterian and pagan alik -- for we are all somehow dread crack about the head , and sadli need mend . toward even , when I felt assur that all hi perform and ritual must be over , I went up to hi room and knock at the door ; but no answer . I tri to open it , but it wa fasten insid . `` queequeg , '' said I softli through the key - hole : -- all silent . `` I say , queequeg ! whi don ' t you speak ? It ' s I -- ishmael . '' but all remain still as befor . I began to grow alarm . I had allow him such abund time ; I thought he might have had an apoplect fit . I look through the key - hole ; but the door open into an odd corner of the room , the key - hole prospect wa but a crook and sinist one . I could onli see part of the foot - board of the bed and a line of the wall , but noth more . I wa surpris to behold rest against the wall the wooden shaft of queequeg ' s harpoon , which the landladi the even previou had taken from him , befor our mount to the chamber . that ' s strang , thought I ; but at ani rate , sinc the harpoon stand yonder , and he seldom or never goe abroad without it , therefor he must be insid here , and no possibl mistak . `` queequeg ! -- queequeg ! '' -- all still . someth must have happen . apoplexi ! I tri to burst open the door ; but it stubbornli resist . run down stair , I quickli state my suspicion to the first person I met -- the chamber - maid . `` La ! la ! '' she cri , `` I thought someth must be the matter . I went to make the bed after breakfast , and the door wa lock ; and not a mous to be heard ; and it ' s been just so silent ever sinc . but I thought , may be , you had both gone off and lock your baggag in for safe keep . La ! la , ma ' am ! -- mistress ! murder ! mr . hussey ! apoplexi ! '' -- and with these cri , she ran toward the kitchen , I follow . mr . hussey soon appear , with a mustard - pot in one hand and a vinegar - cruet in the other , have just broken away from the occup of attend to the castor , and scold her littl black boy meantim . `` wood - hous ! '' cri I , `` which way to it ? run for god ' s sake , and fetch someth to pri open the door -- the axe ! -- the axe ! he ' s had a stroke ; depend upon it ! '' -- and so say I wa unmethod rush up stair again empti - hand , when mr . hussey interpos the mustard - pot and vinegar - cruet , and the entir castor of her counten . `` what ' s the matter with you , young man ? '' `` get the axe ! for god ' s sake , run for the doctor , some one , while I pri it open ! '' `` look here , '' said the landladi , quickli put down the vinegar - cruet , so as to have one hand free ; `` look here ; are you talk about pri open ani of my door ? '' -- and with that she seiz my arm . `` what ' s the matter with you ? what ' s the matter with you , shipmat ? '' In as calm , but rapid a manner as possibl , I gave her to understand the whole case . unconsci clap the vinegar - cruet to one side of her nose , she rumin for an instant ; then exclaim -- '' No ! I haven ' t seen it sinc I put it there . '' run to a littl closet under the land of the stair , she glanc in , and return , told me that queequeg ' s harpoon wa miss . `` He ' s kill himself , '' she cri . `` It ' s unfort ' nate stigg done over again there goe anoth counterpan -- god piti hi poor mother ! -- it will be the ruin of my hous . ha the poor lad a sister ? where ' s that girl ? -- there , betti , go to snarl the painter , and tell him to paint me a sign , with -- '' no suicid permit here , and no smoke in the parlor ; '' -- might as well kill both bird at onc . kill ? the lord be merci to hi ghost ! what ' s that nois there ? you , young man , avast there ! '' and run up after me , she caught me as I wa again tri to forc open the door . `` I don ' t allow it ; I won ' t have my premis spoil . Go for the locksmith , there ' s one about a mile from here . but avast ! '' put her hand in her side - pocket , `` here ' s a key that ' ll fit , I guess ; let ' s see . '' and with that , she turn it in the lock ; but , ala ! queequeg ' s supplement bolt remain unwithdrawn within . `` have to burst it open , '' said I , and wa run down the entri a littl , for a good start , when the landladi caught at me , again vow I should not break down her premis ; but I tore from her , and with a sudden bodili rush dash myself full against the mark . with a prodigi nois the door flew open , and the knob slam against the wall , sent the plaster to the ceil ; and there , good heaven ! there sat queequeg , altogeth cool and self - collect ; right in the middl of the room ; squat on hi ham , and hold yojo on top of hi head . He look neither one way nor the other way , but sat like a carv imag with scarc a sign of activ life . `` queequeg , '' said I , go up to him , `` queequeg , what ' s the matter with you ? '' `` He hain ' t been a sittin ' so all day , ha he ? '' said the landladi . but all we said , not a word could we drag out of him ; I almost felt like push him over , so as to chang hi posit , for it wa almost intoler , it seem so pain and unnatur constrain ; especi , as in all probabl he had been sit so for upward of eight or ten hour , go too without hi regular meal . `` mr . hussey , '' said I , `` he ' s aliv at all event ; so leav us , if you pleas , and I will see to thi strang affair myself . '' close the door upon the landladi , I endeavor to prevail upon queequeg to take a chair ; but in vain . there he sat ; and all he could do -- for all my polit art and blandish -- he would not move a peg , nor say a singl word , nor even look at me , nor notic my presenc in the slightest way . I wonder , thought I , if thi can possibl be a part of hi ramadan ; do they fast on their ham that way in hi nativ island . It must be so ; ye , it ' s part of hi creed , I suppos ; well , then , let him rest ; he ' ll get up sooner or later , no doubt . It can ' t last for ever , thank god , and hi ramadan onli come onc a year ; and I don ' t believ it ' s veri punctual then . I went down to supper . after sit a long time listen to the long stori of some sailor who had just come from a plum - pud voyag , as they call it ( that is , a short whale - voyag in a schooner or brig , confin to the north of the line , in the atlant ocean onli ) ; after listen to these plum - pudding till nearli eleven o ' clock , I went up stair to go to bed , feel quit sure by thi time queequeg must certainli have brought hi ramadan to a termin . but no ; there he wa just where I had left him ; he had not stir an inch . I began to grow vex with him ; it seem so downright senseless and insan to be sit there all day and half the night on hi ham in a cold room , hold a piec of wood on hi head . `` for heaven ' s sake , queequeg , get up and shake yourself ; get up and have some supper . you ' ll starv ; you ' ll kill yourself , queequeg . '' but not a word did he repli . despair of him , therefor , I determin to go to bed and to sleep ; and no doubt , befor a great while , he would follow me . but previou to turn in , I took my heavi bearskin jacket , and threw it over him , as it promis to be a veri cold night ; and he had noth but hi ordinari round jacket on . for some time , do all I would , I could not get into the faintest doze . I had blown out the candl ; and the mere thought of queequeg -- not four feet off -- sit there in that uneasi posit , stark alon in the cold and dark ; thi made me realli wretch . think of it ; sleep all night in the same room with a wide awak pagan on hi ham in thi dreari , unaccount ramadan ! but somehow I drop off at last , and knew noth more till break of day ; when , look over the bedsid , there squat queequeg , as if he had been screw down to the floor . but as soon as the first glimps of sun enter the window , up he got , with stiff and grate joint , but with a cheer look ; limp toward me where I lay ; press hi forehead again against mine ; and said hi ramadan wa over . now , as I befor hint , I have no object to ani person ' s religion , be it what it may , so long as that person doe not kill or insult ani other person , becaus that other person don ' t believ it also . but when a man ' s religion becom realli frantic ; when it is a posit torment to him ; and , in fine , make thi earth of our an uncomfort inn to lodg in ; then I think it high time to take that individu asid and argu the point with him . and just so I now did with queequeg . `` queequeg , '' said I , `` get into bed now , and lie and listen to me . '' I then went on , begin with the rise and progress of the primit religion , and come down to the variou religion of the present time , dure which time I labor to show queequeg that all these lent , ramadan , and prolong ham - squat in cold , cheerless room were stark nonsens ; bad for the health ; useless for the soul ; oppos , in short , to the obviou law of hygien and common sens . I told him , too , that he be in other thing such an extrem sensibl and sagaci savag , it pain me , veri badli pain me , to see him now so deplor foolish about thi ridicul ramadan of hi . besid , argu I , fast make the bodi cave in ; henc the spirit cave in ; and all thought born of a fast must necessarili be half - starv . thi is the reason whi most dyspept religionist cherish such melancholi notion about their hereaft . In one word , queequeg , said I , rather digress ; hell is an idea first born on an undigest appl - dumpl ; and sinc then perpetu through the hereditari dyspepsia nurtur by ramadan . I then ask queequeg whether he himself wa ever troubl with dyspepsia ; express the idea veri plainli , so that he could take it in . He said no ; onli upon one memor occas . It wa after a great feast given by hi father the king , on the gain of a great battl wherein fifti of the enemi had been kill by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cook and eaten that veri even . `` No more , queequeg , '' said I , shudder ; `` that will do ; '' for I knew the infer without hi further hint them . I had seen a sailor who had visit that veri island , and he told me that it wa the custom , when a great battl had been gain there , to barbecu all the slain in the yard or garden of the victor ; and then , one by one , they were place in great wooden trencher , and garnish round like a pilau , with breadfruit and cocoanut ; and with some parsley in their mouth , were sent round with the victor ' s compliment to all hi friend , just as though these present were so mani christma turkey . after all , I do not think that my remark about religion made much impress upon queequeg . becaus , in the first place , he somehow seem dull of hear on that import subject , unless consid from hi own point of view ; and , in the second place , he did not more than one third understand me , couch my idea simpli as I would ; and , final , he no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about the true religion than I did . He look at me with a sort of condescend concern and compass , as though he thought it a great piti that such a sensibl young man should be so hopelessli lost to evangel pagan pieti . At last we rose and dress ; and queequeg , take a prodigi hearti breakfast of chowder of all sort , so that the landladi should not make much profit by reason of hi ramadan , we salli out to board the pequod , saunter along , and pick our teeth with halibut bone . chapter 18 hi mark . As we were walk down the end of the wharf toward the ship , queequeg carri hi harpoon , captain peleg in hi gruff voic loudli hail us from hi wigwam , say he had not suspect my friend wa a cannib , and furthermor announc that he let no cannib on board that craft , unless they previous produc their paper . `` what do you mean by that , captain peleg ? '' said I , now jump on the bulwark , and leav my comrad stand on the wharf . `` I mean , '' he repli , `` he must show hi paper . '' `` ye , '' said captain bildad in hi hollow voic , stick hi head from behind peleg ' s , out of the wigwam . `` He must show that he ' s convert . son of dark , '' he ad , turn to queequeg , `` art thou at present in communion with ani christian church ? '' `` whi , '' said I , `` he ' s a member of the first congreg church . '' here be it said , that mani tattoo savag sail in nantucket ship at last come to be convert into the church . `` first congreg church , '' cri bildad , `` what ! that worship in deacon deuteronomi coleman ' s meet - hous ? '' and so say , take out hi spectacl , he rub them with hi great yellow bandana handkerchief , and put them on veri care , came out of the wigwam , and lean stiffli over the bulwark , took a good long look at queequeg . `` how long hath he been a member ? '' he then said , turn to me ; `` not veri long , I rather guess , young man . '' `` No , '' said peleg , `` and he hasn ' t been baptiz right either , or it would have wash some of that devil ' s blue off hi face . '' `` Do tell , now , '' cri bildad , `` is thi philistin a regular member of deacon deuteronomi ' s meet ? I never saw him go there , and I pass it everi lord ' s day . '' `` I don ' t know anyth about deacon deuteronomi or hi meet , '' said I ; `` all I know is , that queequeg here is a born member of the first congreg church . He is a deacon himself , queequeg is . '' `` young man , '' said bildad sternli , `` thou art skylark with me -- explain thyself , thou young hittit . what church dost thee mean ? answer me . '' find myself thu hard push , I repli . `` I mean , sir , the same ancient cathol church to which you and I , and captain peleg there , and queequeg here , and all of us , and everi mother ' s son and soul of us belong ; the great and everlast first congreg of thi whole worship world ; we all belong to that ; onli some of us cherish some queer crotchet no way touch the grand belief ; in that we all join hand . '' `` splice , thou mean ' st splice hand , '' cri peleg , draw nearer . `` young man , you ' d better ship for a missionari , instead of a fore - mast hand ; I never heard a better sermon . deacon deuteronomi -- whi father mappl himself couldn ' t beat it , and he ' s reckon someth . come aboard , come aboard ; never mind about the paper . I say , tell quohog there -- what ' s that you call him ? tell quohog to step along . By the great anchor , what a harpoon he ' s got there ! look like good stuff that ; and he handl it about right . I say , quohog , or whatev your name is , did you ever stand in the head of a whale - boat ? did you ever strike a fish ? '' without say a word , queequeg , in hi wild sort of way , jump upon the bulwark , from thenc into the bow of one of the whale - boat hang to the side ; and then brace hi left knee , and pois hi harpoon , cri out in some such way as thi : -- `` cap ' ain , you see him small drop tar on water dere ? you see him ? well , spose him one whale eye , well , den ! '' and take sharp aim at it , he dart the iron right over old bildad ' s broad brim , clean across the ship ' s deck , and struck the glisten tar spot out of sight . `` now , '' said queequeg , quietli haul in the line , `` spo - ee him whale - e eye ; whi , dad whale dead . '' `` quick , bildad , '' said peleg , hi partner , who , aghast at the close vicin of the fli harpoon , had retreat toward the cabin gangway . `` quick , I say , you bildad , and get the ship ' s paper . We must have hedgehog there , I mean quohog , in one of our boat . look ye , quohog , we ' ll give ye the ninetieth lay , and that ' s more than ever wa given a harpoon yet out of nantucket . '' So down we went into the cabin , and to my great joy queequeg wa soon enrol among the same ship ' s compani to which I myself belong . when all preliminari were over and peleg had got everyth readi for sign , he turn to me and said , `` I guess , quohog there don ' t know how to write , doe he ? I say , quohog , blast ye ! dost thou sign thi name or make thi mark ? but at thi question , queequeg , who had twice or thrice befor taken part in similar ceremoni , look no way abash ; but take the offer pen , copi upon the paper , in the proper place , an exact counterpart of a queer round figur which wa tattoo upon hi arm ; so that through captain peleg ' s obstin mistak touch hi appel , it stood someth like thi : -- quohog . hi X mark . meanwhil captain bildad sat earnestli and steadfastli eye queequeg , and at last rise solemnli and fumbl in the huge pocket of hi broad - skirt drab coat , took out a bundl of tract , and select one entitl `` the latter day come ; or No time to lose , '' place it in queequeg ' s hand , and then grasp them and the book with both hi , look earnestli into hi eye , and said , `` son of dark , I must do my duti by thee ; I am part owner of thi ship , and feel concern for the soul of all it crew ; if thou still clingest to thi pagan way , which I sadli fear , I beseech thee , remain not for aye a belial bondsman . spurn the idol bell , and the hideou dragon ; turn from the wrath to come ; mind thine eye , I say ; oh ! good graciou ! steer clear of the fieri pit ! '' someth of the salt sea yet linger in old bildad ' s languag , heterogen mix with scriptur and domest phrase . `` avast there , avast there , bildad , avast now spoil our harpoon , '' peleg . `` piou harpoon never make good voyag -- it take the shark out of ' em ; no harpoon is worth a straw who aint pretti sharkish . there wa young nat swain , onc the bravest boat - header out of all nantucket and the vineyard ; he join the meet , and never came to good . He got so frighten about hi plaguy soul , that he shrink and sheer away from whale , for fear of after - clap , in case he got stove and went to davi jone . '' `` peleg ! peleg ! '' said bildad , lift hi eye and hand , `` thou thyself , as I myself , hast seen mani a peril time ; thou knowest , peleg , what it is to have the fear of death ; how , then , can ' st thou prate in thi ungodli guis . thou beliest thine own heart , peleg . tell me , when thi same pequod here had her three mast overboard in that typhoon on japan , that same voyag when thou went mate with captain ahab , did ' st thou not think of death and the judgment then ? '' `` hear him , hear him now , '' cri peleg , march across the cabin , and thrust hi hand far down into hi pocket , -- '' hear him , all of ye . think of that ! when everi moment we thought the ship would sink ! death and the judgment then ? what ? with all three mast make such an everlast thunder against the side ; and everi sea break over us , fore and aft . think of death and the judgment then ? No ! no time to think about death then . life wa what captain ahab and I wa think of ; and how to save all hand -- how to rig juri - mast -- how to get into the nearest port ; that wa what I wa think of . '' bildad said no more , but button up hi coat , stalk on deck , where we follow him . there he stood , veri quietli overlook some sailmak who were mend a top - sail in the waist . now and then he stoop to pick up a patch , or save an end of tar twine , which otherwis might have been wast . chapter 19 the prophet . `` shipmat , have ye ship in that ship ? '' queequeg and I had just left the pequod , and were saunter away from the water , for the moment each occupi with hi own thought , when the abov word were put to us by a stranger , who , paus befor us , level hi massiv forefing at the vessel in question . He wa but shabbili apparel in fade jacket and patch trowser ; a rag of a black handkerchief invest hi neck . A confluent small - pox had in all direct flow over hi face , and left it like the complic rib bed of a torrent , when the rush water have been dri up . `` have ye ship in her ? '' he repeat . `` you mean the ship pequod , I suppos , '' said I , tri to gain a littl more time for an uninterrupt look at him . `` aye , the pequod -- that ship there , '' he said , draw back hi whole arm , and then rapidli shove it straight out from him , with the fix bayonet of hi point finger dart full at the object . `` ye , '' said I , `` we have just sign the articl . '' `` anyth down there about your soul ? '' `` about what ? '' `` Oh , perhap you hav ' n ' t got ani , '' he said quickli . `` No matter though , I know mani chap that hav ' n ' t got ani , -- good luck to ' em ; and they are all the better off for it . A soul ' s a sort of a fifth wheel to a wagon . '' `` what are you jabber about , shipmat ? '' said I . `` HE ' S got enough , though , to make up for all defici of that sort in other chap , '' abruptli said the stranger , place a nervou emphasi upon the word HE . `` queequeg , '' said I , `` let ' s go ; thi fellow ha broken loos from somewher ; he ' s talk about someth and somebodi we don ' t know . '' `` stop ! '' cri the stranger . `` Ye said true -- ye hav ' n ' t seen old thunder yet , have ye ? '' `` who ' s old thunder ? '' said I , again rivet with the insan earnest of hi manner . `` captain ahab . '' `` what ! the captain of our ship , the pequod ? '' `` aye , among some of us old sailor chap , he goe by that name . Ye hav ' n ' t seen him yet , have ye ? '' `` No , we hav ' n ' t . He ' s sick they say , but is get better , and will be all right again befor long . '' `` all right again befor long ! '' laugh the stranger , with a solemnli deris sort of laugh . `` look ye ; when captain ahab is all right , then thi left arm of mine will be all right ; not befor . '' `` what do you know about him ? '' `` what did they tell you about him ? say that ! '' `` they didn ' t tell much of anyth about him ; onli I ' ve heard that he ' s a good whale - hunter , and a good captain to hi crew . '' `` that ' s true , that ' s true -- ye , both true enough . but you must jump when he give an order . step and growl ; growl and go -- that ' s the word with captain ahab . but noth about that thing that happen to him off cape horn , long ago , when he lay like dead for three day and night ; noth about that deadli skrimmag with the spaniard afor the altar in santa ? -- heard noth about that , eh ? noth about the silver calabash he spat into ? and noth about hi lose hi leg last voyag , accord to the propheci . didn ' t ye hear a word about them matter and someth more , eh ? No , I don ' t think ye did ; how could ye ? who know it ? not all nantucket , I guess . but how ' ever , mayhap , ye ' ve heard tell about the leg , and how he lost it ; aye , ye have heard of that , I dare say . Oh ye , that everi one know a ' most -- I mean they know he ' s onli one leg ; and that a parmacetti took the other off . '' `` My friend , '' said I , `` what all thi gibberish of your is about , I don ' t know , and I don ' t much care ; for it seem to me that you must be a littl damag in the head . but if you are speak of captain ahab , of that ship there , the pequod , then let me tell you , that I know all about the loss of hi leg . '' `` all about it , eh -- sure you do ? -- all ? '' `` pretti sure . '' with finger point and eye level at the pequod , the beggar - like stranger stood a moment , as if in a troubl reveri ; then start a littl , turn and said : -- '' Ye ' ve ship , have ye ? name down on the paper ? well , well , what ' s sign , is sign ; and what ' s to be , will be ; and then again , perhap it won ' t be , after all . anyhow , it ' s all fix and arrang a ' readi ; and some sailor or other must go with him , I suppos ; as well these as ani other men , god piti ' em ! morn to ye , shipmat , morn ; the ineff heaven bless ye ; I ' m sorri I stop ye . '' `` look here , friend , '' said I , `` if you have anyth import to tell us , out with it ; but if you are onli tri to bamboozl us , you are mistaken in your game ; that ' s all I have to say . '' `` and it ' s said veri well , and I like to hear a chap talk up that way ; you are just the man for him -- the like of ye . morn to ye , shipmat , morn ! Oh ! when ye get there , tell ' em I ' ve conclud not to make one of ' em . '' `` Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him . '' `` morn to ye , shipmat , morn . '' `` morn it is , '' said I . `` come along , queequeg , let ' s leav thi crazi man . but stop , tell me your name , will you ? '' `` elijah . '' elijah ! thought I , and we walk away , both comment , after each other ' s fashion , upon thi rag old sailor ; and agre that he wa noth but a humbug , tri to be a bugbear . but we had not gone perhap abov a hundr yard , when chanc to turn a corner , and look back as I did so , who should be seen but elijah follow us , though at a distanc . somehow , the sight of him struck me so , that I said noth to queequeg of hi be behind , but pass on with my comrad , anxiou to see whether the stranger would turn the same corner that we did . He did ; and then it seem to me that he wa dog us , but with what intent I could not for the life of me imagin . thi circumst , coupl with hi ambigu , half - hint , half - reveal , shroud sort of talk , now begat in me all kind of vagu wonder and half - apprehens , and all connect with the pequod ; and captain ahab ; and the leg he had lost ; and the cape horn fit ; and the silver calabash ; and what captain peleg had said of him , when I left the ship the day previou ; and the predict of the squaw tistig ; and the voyag we had bound ourselv to sail ; and a hundr other shadowi thing . I wa resolv to satisfi myself whether thi rag elijah wa realli dog us or not , and with that intent cross the way with queequeg , and on that side of it retrac our step . but elijah pass on , without seem to notic us . thi reliev me ; and onc more , and final as it seem to me , I pronounc him in my heart , a humbug . chapter 20 all astir . A day or two pass , and there wa great activ aboard the pequod . not onli were the old sail be mend , but new sail were come on board , and bolt of canva , and coil of rig ; in short , everyth betoken that the ship ' s prepar were hurri to a close . captain peleg seldom or never went ashor , but sat in hi wigwam keep a sharp look - out upon the hand : bildad did all the purchas and provid at the store ; and the men employ in the hold and on the rig were work till long after night - fall . On the day follow queequeg ' s sign the articl , word wa given at all the inn where the ship ' s compani were stop , that their chest must be on board befor night , for there wa no tell how soon the vessel might be sail . So queequeg and I got down our trap , resolv , howev , to sleep ashor till the last . but it seem they alway give veri long notic in these case , and the ship did not sail for sever day . but no wonder ; there wa a good deal to be done , and there is no tell how mani thing to be thought of , befor the pequod wa fulli equip . everi one know what a multitud of thing -- bed , sauc - pan , knive and fork , shovel and tong , napkin , nut - cracker , and what not , are indispens to the busi of housekeep . just so with whale , which necessit a three - year ' housekeep upon the wide ocean , far from all grocer , costermong , doctor , baker , and banker . and though thi also hold true of merchant vessel , yet not by ani mean to the same extent as with whalemen . for besid the great length of the whale voyag , the numer articl peculiar to the prosecut of the fisheri , and the imposs of replac them at the remot harbor usual frequent , it must be rememb , that of all ship , whale vessel are the most expos to accid of all kind , and especi to the destruct and loss of the veri thing upon which the success of the voyag most depend . henc , the spare boat , spare spar , and spare line and harpoon , and spare everyth , almost , but a spare captain and duplic ship . At the period of our arriv at the island , the heaviest storag of the pequod had been almost complet ; compris her beef , bread , water , fuel , and iron hoop and stave . but , as befor hint , for some time there wa a continu fetch and carri on board of diver odd and end of thing , both larg and small . chief among those who did thi fetch and carri wa captain bildad ' s sister , a lean old ladi of a most determin and indefatig spirit , but withal veri kindheart , who seem resolv that , if she could help it , noth should be found want in the pequod , after onc fairli get to sea . At one time she would come on board with a jar of pickl for the steward ' s pantri ; anoth time with a bunch of quill for the chief mate ' s desk , where he kept hi log ; a third time with a roll of flannel for the small of some one ' s rheumat back . never did ani woman better deserv her name , which wa chariti -- aunt chariti , as everybodi call her . and like a sister of chariti did thi charit aunt chariti bustl about hither and thither , readi to turn her hand and heart to anyth that promis to yield safeti , comfort , and consol to all on board a ship in which her belov brother bildad wa concern , and in which she herself own a score or two of well - save dollar . but it wa startl to see thi excel heart quakeress come on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladl in one hand , and a still longer whale lanc in the other . nor wa bildad himself nor captain peleg at all backward . As for bildad , he carri about with him a long list of the articl need , and at everi fresh arriv , down went hi mark opposit that articl upon the paper . everi onc in a while peleg came hobbl out of hi whalebon den , roar at the men down the hatchway , roar up to the rigger at the mast - head , and then conclud by roar back into hi wigwam . dure these day of prepar , queequeg and I often visit the craft , and as often I ask about captain ahab , and how he wa , and when he wa go to come on board hi ship . To these question they would answer , that he wa get better and better , and wa expect aboard everi day ; meantim , the two captain , peleg and bildad , could attend to everyth necessari to fit the vessel for the voyag . If I had been downright honest with myself , I would have seen veri plainli in my heart that I did but half fanci be commit thi way to so long a voyag , without onc lay my eye on the man who wa to be the absolut dictat of it , so soon as the ship sail out upon the open sea . but when a man suspect ani wrong , it sometim happen that if he be alreadi involv in the matter , he insens strive to cover up hi suspicion even from himself . and much thi way it wa with me . I said noth , and tri to think noth . At last it wa given out that some time next day the ship would certainli sail . So next morn , queequeg and I took a veri earli start . chapter 21 go aboard . It wa nearli six o ' clock , but onli grey imperfect misti dawn , when we drew nigh the wharf . `` there are some sailor run ahead there , if I see right , '' said I to queequeg , `` it can ' t be shadow ; she ' s off by sunris , I guess ; come on ! '' `` avast ! '' cri a voic , whose owner at the same time come close behind us , laid a hand upon both our shoulder , and then insinu himself between us , stood stoop forward a littl , in the uncertain twilight , strang peer from queequeg to me . It wa elijah . `` go aboard ? '' `` hand off , will you , '' said I . `` looke here , '' said queequeg , shake himself , `` go ' way ! '' `` ain ' t go aboard , then ? '' `` ye , we are , '' said I , `` but what busi is that of your ? Do you know , Mr . elijah , that I consid you a littl impertin ? '' `` No , no , no ; I wasn ' t awar of that , '' said elijah , slowli and wonderingli look from me to queequeg , with the most unaccount glanc . `` elijah , '' said I , `` you will oblig my friend and me by withdraw . We are go to the indian and pacif ocean , and would prefer not to be detain . '' `` Ye be , be ye ? come back afor breakfast ? '' `` He ' s crack , queequeg , '' said I , `` come on . '' `` holloa ! '' cri stationari elijah , hail us when we had remov a few pace . `` never mind him , '' said I , `` queequeg , come on . '' but he stole up to us again , and suddenli clap hi hand on my shoulder , said -- '' did ye see anyth look like men go toward that ship a while ago ? '' struck by thi plain matter - of - fact question , I answer , say , `` ye , I thought I did see four or five men ; but it wa too dim to be sure . '' `` veri dim , veri dim , '' said elijah . `` morn to ye . '' onc more we quit him ; but onc more he came softli after us ; and touch my shoulder again , said , `` see if you can find ' em now , will ye ? `` find who ? '' `` morn to ye ! morn to ye ! '' he rejoin , again move off . `` Oh ! I wa go to warn ye against -- but never mind , never mind -- it ' s all one , all in the famili too ; -- sharp frost thi morn , ain ' t it ? good - bye to ye . shan ' t see ye again veri soon , I guess ; unless it ' s befor the grand juri . '' and with these crack word he final depart , leav me , for the moment , in no small wonder at hi frantic impud . At last , step on board the pequod , we found everyth in profound quiet , not a soul move . the cabin entranc wa lock within ; the hatch were all on , and lumber with coil of rig . go forward to the forecastl , we found the slide of the scuttl open . see a light , we went down , and found onli an old rigger there , wrap in a tatter pea - jacket . He wa thrown at whole length upon two chest , hi face downward and inclos in hi fold arm . the profoundest slumber slept upon him . `` those sailor we saw , queequeg , where can they have gone to ? '' said I , look dubious at the sleeper . but it seem that , when on the wharf , queequeg had not at all notic what I now allud to ; henc I would have thought myself to have been optic deceiv in that matter , were it not for elijah ' s otherwis inexplic question . but I beat the thing down ; and again mark the sleeper , jocularli hint to queequeg that perhap we had best sit up with the bodi ; tell him to establish himself accordingli . He put hi hand upon the sleeper ' s rear , as though feel if it wa soft enough ; and then , without more ado , sat quietli down there . `` graciou ! queequeg , don ' t sit there , '' said I . `` Oh ! perri dood seat , '' said queequeg , `` my countri way ; won ' t hurt him face . '' `` face ! '' said I , `` call that hi face ? veri benevol counten then ; but how hard he breath , he ' s heav himself ; get off , queequeg , you are heavi , it ' s grind the face of the poor . get off , queequeg ! look , he ' ll twitch you off soon . I wonder he don ' t wake . '' queequeg remov himself to just beyond the head of the sleeper , and light hi tomahawk pipe . I sat at the feet . We kept the pipe pass over the sleeper , from one to the other . meanwhil , upon question him in hi broken fashion , queequeg gave me to understand that , in hi land , owe to the absenc of sette and sofa of all sort , the king , chief , and great peopl gener , were in the custom of fatten some of the lower order for ottoman ; and to furnish a hous comfort in that respect , you had onli to buy up eight or ten lazi fellow , and lay them round in the pier and alcov . besid , it wa veri conveni on an excurs ; much better than those garden - chair which are convert into walk - stick ; upon occas , a chief call hi attend , and desir him to make a sette of himself under a spread tree , perhap in some damp marshi place . while narrat these thing , everi time queequeg receiv the tomahawk from me , he flourish the hatchet - side of it over the sleeper ' s head . `` what ' s that for , queequeg ? '' `` perri easi , kill - e ; oh ! perri easi ! He wa go on with some wild reminisc about hi tomahawk - pipe , which , it seem , had in it two use both brain hi foe and sooth hi soul , when we were directli attract to the sleep rigger . the strong vapour now complet fill the contract hole , it began to tell upon him . He breath with a sort of muffled ; then seem troubl in the nose ; then revolv over onc or twice ; then sat up and rub hi eye . `` holloa ! '' he breath at last , `` who be ye smoker ? '' `` ship men , '' answer I , `` when doe she sail ? '' `` aye , aye , ye are go in her , be ye ? she sail to - day . the captain came aboard last night . '' `` what captain ? -- ahab ? '' `` who but him inde ? '' I wa go to ask him some further question concern ahab , when we heard a nois on deck . `` holloa ! starbuck ' s astir , '' said the rigger . `` He ' s a live chief mate , that ; good man , and a piou ; but all aliv now , I must turn to . '' and so say he went on deck , and we follow . It wa now clear sunris . soon the crew came on board in two and three ; the rigger bestir themselv ; the mate were activ engag ; and sever of the shore peopl were busi in bring variou last thing on board . meanwhil captain ahab remain invis enshrin within hi cabin . chapter 22 merri christma . At length , toward noon , upon the final dismiss of the ship ' s rigger , and after the pequod had been haul out from the wharf , and after the ever - thought chariti had come off in a whale - boat , with her last gift -- a night - cap for stubb , the second mate , her brother - in - law , and a spare bibl for the steward -- after all thi , the two captain , peleg and bildad , issu from the cabin , and turn to the chief mate , peleg said : `` now , Mr . starbuck , are you sure everyth is right ? captain ahab is all readi -- just spoke to him -- noth more to be got from shore , eh ? well , call all hand , then . muster ' em aft here -- blast ' em ! '' `` No need of profan word , howev great the hurri , peleg , '' said bildad , `` but away with thee , friend starbuck , and do our bid . '' how now ! here upon the veri point of start for the voyag , captain peleg and captain bildad were go it with a high hand on the quarter - deck , just as if they were to be joint - command at sea , as well as to all appear in port . and , as for captain ahab , no sign of him wa yet to be seen ; onli , they said he wa in the cabin . but then , the idea wa , that hi presenc wa by no mean necessari in get the ship under weigh , and steer her well out to sea . inde , as that wa not at all hi proper busi , but the pilot ' s ; and as he wa not yet complet recov -- so they said -- therefor , captain ahab stay below . and all thi seem natur enough ; especi as in the merchant servic mani captain never show themselv on deck for a consider time after heav up the anchor , but remain over the cabin tabl , have a farewel merri - make with their shore friend , befor they quit the ship for good with the pilot . but there wa not much chanc to think over the matter , for captain peleg wa now all aliv . He seem to do most of the talk and command , and not bildad . `` aft here , ye son of bachelor , '' he cri , as the sailor linger at the main - mast . `` Mr . starbuck , drive ' em aft . '' `` strike the tent there ! '' -- wa the next order . As I hint befor , thi whalebon marque wa never pitch except in port ; and on board the pequod , for thirti year , the order to strike the tent wa well known to be the next thing to heav up the anchor . `` man the capstan ! blood and thunder ! -- jump ! '' -- wa the next command , and the crew sprang for the handspik . now in get under weigh , the station gener occupi by the pilot is the forward part of the ship . and here bildad , who , with peleg , be it known , in addit to hi other offic , wa one of the licens pilot of the port -- he be suspect to have got himself made a pilot in order to save the nantucket pilot - fee to all the ship he wa concern in , for he never pilot ani other craft -- bildad , I say , might now be seen activ engag in look over the bow for the approach anchor , and at interv sing what seem a dismal stave of psalmodi , to cheer the hand at the windlass , who roar forth some sort of a choru about the girl in boobl alley , with hearti good will . nevertheless , not three day previou , bildad had told them that no profan song would be allow on board the pequod , particularli in get under weigh ; and chariti , hi sister , had place a small choic copi of watt in each seaman ' s berth . meantim , overse the other part of the ship , captain peleg rip and swore astern in the most fright manner . I almost thought he would sink the ship befor the anchor could be got up ; involuntarili I paus on my handspik , and told queequeg to do the same , think of the peril we both ran , in start on the voyag with such a devil for a pilot . I wa comfort myself , howev , with the thought that in piou bildad might be found some salvat , spite of hi seven hundr and seventi - seventh lay ; when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear , and turn round , wa horrifi at the apparit of captain peleg in the act of withdraw hi leg from my immedi vicin . that wa my first kick . `` Is that the way they heav in the marchant servic ? '' he roar . `` spring , thou sheep - head ; spring , and break thi backbon ! whi don ' t ye spring , I say , all of ye -- spring ! quohog ! spring , thou chap with the red whisker ; spring there , scotch - cap ; spring , thou green pant . spring , I say , all of ye , and spring your eye out ! '' and so say , he move along the windlass , here and there use hi leg veri freeli , while imperturb bildad kept lead off with hi psalmodi . think I , captain peleg must have been drink someth to - day . At last the anchor wa up , the sail were set , and off we glide . It wa a short , cold christma ; and as the short northern day merg into night , we found ourselv almost broad upon the wintri ocean , whose freez spray case us in ice , as in polish armor . the long row of teeth on the bulwark glisten in the moonlight ; and like the white ivori tusk of some huge eleph , vast curv icicl depend from the bow . lank bildad , as pilot , head the first watch , and ever and anon , as the old craft deep dive into the green sea , and sent the shiver frost all over her , and the wind howl , and the cordag rang , hi steadi note were heard , -- `` sweet field beyond the swell flood , stand dress in live green . So to the jew old canaan stood , while jordan roll between . '' never did those sweet word sound more sweetli to me than then . they were full of hope and fruition . spite of thi frigid winter night in the boister atlant , spite of my wet feet and wetter jacket , there wa yet , it then seem to me , mani a pleasant haven in store ; and mead and glade so etern vernal , that the grass shot up by the spring , untrodden , unwilt , remain at midsumm . At last we gain such an of , that the two pilot were need no longer . the stout sail - boat that had accompani us began rang alongsid . It wa curiou and not unpleas , how peleg and bildad were affect at thi junctur , especi captain bildad . for loath to depart , yet ; veri loath to leav , for good , a ship bound on so long and peril a voyag -- beyond both stormi cape ; a ship in which some thousand of hi hard earn dollar were invest ; a ship , in which an old shipmat sail as captain ; a man almost as old as he , onc more start to encount all the terror of the pitiless jaw ; loath to say good - bye to a thing so everi way brim of everi interest to him , -- poor old bildad linger long ; pace the deck with anxiou stride ; ran down into the cabin to speak anoth farewel word there ; again came on deck , and look to windward ; look toward the wide and endless water , onli bound by the far - off unseen eastern contin ; look toward the land ; look aloft ; look right and left ; look everywher and nowher ; and at last , mechan coil a rope upon it pin , convuls grasp stout peleg by the hand , and hold up a lantern , for a moment stood gaze heroic in hi face , as much as to say , `` nevertheless , friend peleg , I can stand it ; ye , I can . '' As for peleg himself , he took it more like a philosoph ; but for all hi philosophi , there wa a tear twinkl in hi eye , when the lantern came too near . and he , too , did not a littl run from cabin to deck -- now a word below , and now a word with starbuck , the chief mate . but , at last , he turn to hi comrad , with a final sort of look about him , -- '' captain bildad -- come , old shipmat , we must go . back the main - yard there ! boat ahoy ! stand by to come close alongsid , now ! care , care ! -- come , bildad , boy -- say your last . luck to ye , starbuck -- luck to ye , Mr . stubb -- luck to ye , Mr . flask -- good - bye and good luck to ye all -- and thi day three year I ' ll have a hot supper smoke for ye in old nantucket . hurrah and away ! '' `` god bless ye , and have ye in hi holi keep , men , '' murmur old bildad , almost incoher . `` I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that captain ahab may soon be move among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he need , and ye ' ll have plenti of them in the tropic voyag ye go . Be care in the hunt , ye mate . don ' t stave the boat needlessli , ye harpoon ; good white cedar plank is rais full three per cent . within the year . don ' t forget your prayer , either . Mr . starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t wast the spare stave . Oh ! the sail - needl are in the green locker ! don ' t whale it too much a ' lord ' s day , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chanc either , that ' s reject heaven ' s good gift . have an eye to the molass tierc , Mr . stubb ; it wa a littl leaki , I thought . If ye touch at the island , Mr . flask , bewar of fornic . good - bye , good - bye ! don ' t keep that chees too long down in the hold , Mr . starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be care with the butter -- twenti cent the pound it wa , and mind ye , if -- '' `` come , come , captain bildad ; stop palav , -- away ! '' and with that , peleg hurri him over the side , and both dropt into the boat . ship and boat diverg ; the cold , damp night breez blew between ; a scream gull flew overhead ; the two hull wildli roll ; we gave three heavi - heart cheer , and blindli plung like fate into the lone atlant . chapter 23 the lee shore . some chapter back , one bulkington wa spoken of , a tall , newland marin , encount in new bedford at the inn . when on that shiver winter ' s night , the pequod thrust her vindict bow into the cold malici wave , who should I see stand at her helm but bulkington ! I look with sympathet awe and fear upon the man , who in mid - winter just land from a four year ' danger voyag , could so unrestingli push off again for still anoth tempestu term . the land seem scorch to hi feet . wonderfullest thing are ever the unmention ; deep memori yield no epitaph ; thi six - inch chapter is the stoneless grave of bulkington . let me onli say that it fare with him as with the storm - toss ship , that miser drive along the leeward land . the port would fain give succor ; the port is piti ; in the port is safeti , comfort , hearthston , supper , warm blanket , friend , all that ' s kind to our mortal . but in that gale , the port , the land , is that ship ' s direst jeopardi ; she must fli all hospit ; one touch of land , though it but graze the keel , would make her shudder through and through . with all her might she crowd all sail off shore ; in so do , fight ' gainst the veri wind that fain would blow her homeward ; seek all the lash sea ' s landless again ; for refug ' s sake forlornli rush into peril ; her onli friend her bitterest foe ! know ye now , bulkington ? glimps do ye seem to see of that mortal intoler truth ; that all deep , earnest think is but the intrepid effort of the soul to keep the open independ of her sea ; while the wildest wind of heaven and earth conspir to cast her on the treacher , slavish shore ? but as in landless alon resid highest truth , shoreless , indefinit as god -- so , better is it to perish in that howl infinit , than be inglori dash upon the lee , even if that were safeti ! for worm - like , then , oh ! who would craven crawl to land ! terror of the terribl ! is all thi agoni so vain ? take heart , take heart , O bulkington ! bear thee grimli , demigod ! Up from the spray of thi ocean - perish -- straight up , leap thi apotheosi ! chapter 24 the advoc . As queequeg and I are now fairli embark in thi busi of whale ; and as thi busi of whale ha somehow come to be regard among landsmen as a rather unpoet and disreput pursuit ; therefor , I am all anxieti to convinc ye , ye landsmen , of the injustic herebi done to us hunter of whale . In the first place , it may be deem almost superflu to establish the fact , that among peopl at larg , the busi of whale is not account on a level with what are call the liber profess . If a stranger were introduc into ani miscellan metropolitan societi , it would but slightli advanc the gener opinion of hi merit , were he present to the compani as a harpoon , say ; and if in emul of the naval offic he should append the initi S . W . F . ( sperm whale fisheri ) to hi visit card , such a procedur would be deem pre - emin presum and ridicul . doubtless one lead reason whi the world declin honour us whalemen , is thi : they think that , at best , our vocat amount to a butcher sort of busi ; and that when activ engag therein , we are surround by all manner of defil . butcher we are , that is true . but butcher , also , and butcher of the bloodiest badg have been all martial command whom the world invari delight to honour . and as for the matter of the alleg uncleanli of our busi , ye shall soon be initi into certain fact hitherto pretti gener unknown , and which , upon the whole , will triumphantli plant the sperm whale - ship at least among the cleanliest thing of thi tidi earth . but even grant the charg in question to be true ; what disord slipperi deck of a whale - ship are compar to the unspeak carrion of those battl - field from which so mani soldier return to drink in all ladi ' plaudit ? and if the idea of peril so much enhanc the popular conceit of the soldier ' s profess ; let me assur ye that mani a veteran who ha freeli march up to a batteri , would quickli recoil at the apparit of the sperm whale ' s vast tail , fan into eddi the air over hi head . for what are the comprehens terror of man compar with the interlink terror and wonder of god ! but , though the world scout at us whale hunter , yet doe it unwittingli pay us the profoundest homag ; yea , an all - abound ador ! for almost all the taper , lamp , and candl that burn round the globe , burn , as befor so mani shrine , to our glori ! but look at thi matter in other light ; weigh it in all sort of scale ; see what we whalemen are , and have been . whi did the dutch in De witt ' s time have admir of their whale fleet ? whi did loui xvi . of franc , at hi own person expens , fit out whale ship from dunkirk , and polit invit to that town some score or two of famili from our own island of nantucket ? whi did britain between the year 1750 and 1788 pay to her whalemen in bounti upward of L1 , 000 , 000 ? and lastli , how come it that we whalemen of america now outnumb all the rest of the band whalemen in the world ; sail a navi of upward of seven hundr vessel ; man by eighteen thousand men ; yearli consum 4 , 000 , 000 of dollar ; the ship worth , at the time of sail , $ 20 , 000 , 000 ! and everi year import into our harbor a well reap harvest of $ 7 , 000 , 000 . how come all thi , if there be not someth puissant in whale ? but thi is not the half ; look again . I freeli assert , that the cosmopolit philosoph can not , for hi life , point out one singl peac influenc , which within the last sixti year ha oper more potenti upon the whole broad world , taken in one aggreg , than the high and mighti busi of whale . one way and anoth , it ha begotten event so remark in themselv , and so continu moment in their sequenti issu , that whale may well be regard as that egyptian mother , who bore offspr themselv pregnant from her womb . It would be a hopeless , endless task to catalogu all these thing . let a hand suffic . for mani year past the whale - ship ha been the pioneer in ferret out the remotest and least known part of the earth . she ha explor sea and archipelago which had no chart , where no cook or vancouv had ever sail . If american and european men - of - war now peac ride in onc savag harbor , let them fire salut to the honour and glori of the whale - ship , which origin show them the way , and first interpret between them and the savag . they may celebr as they will the hero of explor expedit , your cook , your krusenstern ; but I say that score of anonym captain have sail out of nantucket , that were as great , and greater than your cook and your krusenstern . for in their succourless empti - handed , they , in the heathenish shark water , and by the beach of unrecord , javelin island , battl with virgin wonder and terror that cook with all hi marin and musket would not willingli have dare . all that is made such a flourish of in the old south sea voyag , those thing were but the life - time commonplac of our heroic nantucket . often , adventur which vancouv dedic three chapter to , these men account unworthi of be set down in the ship ' s common log . Ah , the world ! Oh , the world ! until the whale fisheri round cape horn , no commerc but coloni , scarc ani intercours but coloni , wa carri on between europ and the long line of the opul spanish provinc on the pacif coast . It wa the whaleman who first broke through the jealou polici of the spanish crown , touch those coloni ; and , if space permit , it might be distinctli shown how from those whalemen at last eventu the liber of peru , chili , and bolivia from the yoke of old spain , and the establish of the etern democraci in those part . that great america on the other side of the sphere , australia , wa given to the enlighten world by the whaleman . after it first blunder - born discoveri by a dutchman , all other ship long shun those shore as pestifer barbar ; but the whale - ship touch there . the whale - ship is the true mother of that now mighti coloni . moreov , in the infanc of the first australian settlement , the emigr were sever time save from starvat by the benevol biscuit of the whale - ship luckili drop an anchor in their water . the uncount isl of all polynesia confess the same truth , and do commerci homag to the whale - ship , that clear the way for the missionari and the merchant , and in mani case carri the primit missionari to their first destin . If that doubl - bolt land , japan , is ever to becom hospit , it is the whale - ship alon to whom the credit will be due ; for alreadi she is on the threshold . but if , in the face of all thi , you still declar that whale ha no aesthet nobl associ connect with it , then am I readi to shiver fifti lanc with you there , and unhors you with a split helmet everi time . the whale ha no famou author , and whale no famou chronicl , you will say . the whale NO famou author , and whale NO famou chronicl ? who wrote the first account of our leviathan ? who but mighti job ! and who compos the first narr of a whale - voyag ? who , but no less a princ than alfr the great , who , with hi own royal pen , took down the word from other , the norwegian whale - hunter of those time ! and who pronounc our glow eulog in parliament ? who , but edmund burk ! true enough , but then whalemen themselv are poor devil ; they have no good blood in their vein . NO good blood IN their vein ? they have someth better than royal blood there . the grandmoth of benjamin franklin wa mari morrel ; afterward , by marriag , mari folger , one of the old settler of nantucket , and the ancestress to a long line of folger and harpoon -- all kith and kin to nobl benjamin -- thi day dart the barb iron from one side of the world to the other . good again ; but then all confess that somehow whale is not respect . whale not respect ? whale is imperi ! By old english statutori law , the whale is declar `` a royal fish . `` * Oh , that ' s onli nomin ! the whale himself ha never figur in ani grand impos way . the whale never figur IN ani grand impos way ? In one of the mighti triumph given to a roman gener upon hi enter the world ' s capit , the bone of a whale , brought all the way from the syrian coast , were the most conspicu object in the cymbal process . * * see subsequ chapter for someth more on thi head . grant it , sinc you cite it ; but , say what you will , there is no real digniti in whale . NO digniti IN whale ? the digniti of our call the veri heaven attest . cetu is a constel in the south ! No more ! drive down your hat in presenc of the czar , and take it off to queequeg ! No more ! I know a man that , in hi lifetim , ha taken three hundr and fifti whale . I account that man more honour than that great captain of antiqu who boast of take as mani wall town . and , as for me , if , by ani possibl , there be ani as yet undiscov prime thing in me ; if I shall ever deserv ani real reput in that small but high hush world which I might not be unreason ambiti of ; if hereaft I shall do anyth that , upon the whole , a man might rather have done than to have left undon ; if , at my death , my executor , or more properli my creditor , find ani preciou mss . in my desk , then here I prospect ascrib all the honour and the glori to whale ; for a whale - ship wa my yale colleg and my harvard . chapter 25 postscript . In behalf of the digniti of whale , I would fain advanc naught but substanti fact . but after embattl hi fact , an advoc who should wholli suppress a not unreason surmis , which might tell eloqu upon hi caus -- such an advoc , would he not be blameworthi ? It is well known that at the coron of king and queen , even modern one , a certain curiou process of season them for their function is gone through . there is a saltcellar of state , so call , and there may be a castor of state . how they use the salt , precis -- who know ? certain I am , howev , that a king ' s head is solemnli oil at hi coron , even as a head of salad . can it be , though , that they anoint it with a view of make it interior run well , as they anoint machineri ? much might be rumin here , concern the essenti digniti of thi regal process , becaus in common life we esteem but meanli and contempt a fellow who anoint hi hair , and palpabl smell of that anoint . In truth , a matur man who use hair - oil , unless medicin , that man ha probabl got a quoggi spot in him somewher . As a gener rule , he can ' t amount to much in hi total . but the onli thing to be consid here , is thi -- what kind of oil is use at coron ? certainli it can not be oliv oil , nor macassar oil , nor castor oil , nor bear ' s oil , nor train oil , nor cod - liver oil . what then can it possibl be , but sperm oil in it unmanufactur , unpollut state , the sweetest of all oil ? think of that , ye loyal briton ! we whalemen suppli your king and queen with coron stuff ! chapter 26 knight and squir . the chief mate of the pequod wa starbuck , a nativ of nantucket , and a quaker by descent . He wa a long , earnest man , and though born on an ici coast , seem well adapt to endur hot latitud , hi flesh be hard as twice - bake biscuit . transport to the indi , hi live blood would not spoil like bottl ale . He must have been born in some time of gener drought and famin , or upon one of those fast day for which hi state is famou . onli some thirti arid summer had he seen ; those summer had dri up all hi physic superflu . but thi , hi thin , so to speak , seem no more the token of wast anxieti and care , than it seem the indic of ani bodili blight . It wa mere the condens of the man . He wa by no mean ill - look ; quit the contrari . hi pure tight skin wa an excel fit ; and close wrap up in it , and embalm with inner health and strength , like a revivifi egyptian , thi starbuck seem prepar to endur for long age to come , and to endur alway , as now ; for be it polar snow or torrid sun , like a patent chronomet , hi interior vital wa warrant to do well in all climat . look into hi eye , you seem to see there the yet linger imag of those thousand - fold peril he had calmli confront through life . A staid , steadfast man , whose life for the most part wa a tell pantomim of action , and not a tame chapter of sound . yet , for all hi hardi sobrieti and fortitud , there were certain qualiti in him which at time affect , and in some case seem well nigh to overbal all the rest . uncommonli conscienti for a seaman , and endu with a deep natur rever , the wild wateri loneli of hi life did therefor strongli inclin him to superstit ; but to that sort of superstit , which in some organ seem rather to spring , somehow , from intellig than from ignor . outward portent and inward presenti were hi . and if at time these thing bent the weld iron of hi soul , much more did hi far - away domest memori of hi young cape wife and child , tend to bend him still more from the origin rugged of hi natur , and open him still further to those latent influenc which , in some honest - heart men , restrain the gush of dare - devil dare , so often evinc by other in the more peril vicissitud of the fisheri . `` I will have no man in my boat , '' said starbuck , `` who is not afraid of a whale . '' By thi , he seem to mean , not onli that the most reliabl and use courag wa that which aris from the fair estim of the encount peril , but that an utterli fearless man is a far more danger comrad than a coward . `` aye , aye , '' said stubb , the second mate , `` starbuck , there , is as care a man as you ' ll find anywher in thi fisheri . '' but we shall ere long see what that word `` care `` precis mean when use by a man like stubb , or almost ani other whale hunter . starbuck wa no crusad after peril ; in him courag wa not a sentiment ; but a thing simpli use to him , and alway at hand upon all mortal practic occas . besid , he thought , perhap , that in thi busi of whale , courag wa one of the great stapl outfit of the ship , like her beef and her bread , and not to be foolishli wast . wherefor he had no fanci for lower for whale after sun - down ; nor for persist in fight a fish that too much persist in fight him . for , thought starbuck , I am here in thi critic ocean to kill whale for my live , and not to be kill by them for their ; and that hundr of men had been so kill starbuck well knew . what doom wa hi own father ' s ? where , in the bottomless deep , could he find the torn limb of hi brother ? with memori like these in him , and , moreov , given to a certain superstiti , as ha been said ; the courag of thi starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must inde have been extrem . but it wa not in reason natur that a man so organ , and with such terribl experi and remembr as he had ; it wa not in natur that these thing should fail in latent engend an element in him , which , under suitabl circumst , would break out from it confin , and burn all hi courag up . and brave as he might be , it wa that sort of braveri chiefli , visibl in some intrepid men , which , while gener abid firm in the conflict with sea , or wind , or whale , or ani of the ordinari irrat horror of the world , yet can not withstand those more terrif , becaus more spiritu terror , which sometim menac you from the concentr brow of an enrag and mighti man . but were the come narr to reveal in ani instanc , the complet abas of poor starbuck ' s fortitud , scarc might I have the heart to write it ; for it is a thing most sorrow , nay shock , to expos the fall of valour in the soul . men may seem detest as joint stock - compani and nation ; knave , fool , and murder there may be ; men may have mean and meagr face ; but man , in the ideal , is so nobl and so sparkl , such a grand and glow creatur , that over ani ignomini blemish in him all hi fellow should run to throw their costliest robe . that immacul manli we feel within ourselv , so far within us , that it remain intact though all the outer charact seem gone ; bleed with keenest anguish at the undrap spectacl of a valor - ruin man . nor can pieti itself , at such a shame sight , complet stifl her upbraid against the permit star . but thi august digniti I treat of , is not the digniti of king and robe , but that abound digniti which ha no robe investitur . thou shalt see it shine in the arm that wield a pick or drive a spike ; that democrat digniti which , on all hand , radiat without end from god ; himself ! the great god absolut ! the centr and circumfer of all democraci ! hi omnipres , our divin equal ! If , then , to meanest marin , and renegad and castaway , I shall hereaft ascrib high qualiti , though dark ; weav round them tragic grace ; if even the most mourn , perchanc the most abas , among them all , shall at time lift himself to the exalt mount ; if I shall touch that workman ' s arm with some ether light ; if I shall spread a rainbow over hi disastr set of sun ; then against all mortal critic bear me out in it , thou just spirit of equal , which hast spread one royal mantl of human over all my kind ! bear me out in it , thou great democrat god ! who didst not refus to the swart convict , bunyan , the pale , poetic pearl ; thou who didst cloth with doubli hammer leav of finest gold , the stump and pauper arm of old cervant ; thou who didst pick up andrew jackson from the pebbl ; who didst hurl him upon a war - hors ; who didst thunder him higher than a throne ! thou who , in all thi mighti , earthli march , ever cullest thi selectest champion from the kingli common ; bear me out in it , O god ! chapter 27 knight and squir . stubb wa the second mate . He wa a nativ of cape cod ; and henc , accord to local usag , wa call a cape - cod - man . A happi - go - lucki ; neither craven nor valiant ; take peril as they came with an indiffer air ; and while engag in the most immin crisi of the chase , toil away , calm and collect as a journeyman joiner engag for the year . good - humor , easi , and careless , he presid over hi whale - boat as if the most deadli encount were but a dinner , and hi crew all invit guest . He wa as particular about the comfort arrang of hi part of the boat , as an old stage - driver is about the snug of hi box . when close to the whale , in the veri death - lock of the fight , he handl hi unpiti lanc coolli and off - handedli , as a whistl tinker hi hammer . He would hum over hi old rigadig tune while flank and flank with the most exasper monster . long usag had , for thi stubb , convert the jaw of death into an easi chair . what he thought of death itself , there is no tell . whether he ever thought of it at all , might be a question ; but , if he ever did chanc to cast hi mind that way after a comfort dinner , no doubt , like a good sailor , he took it to be a sort of call of the watch to tumbl aloft , and bestir themselv there , about someth which he would find out when he obey the order , and not sooner . what , perhap , with other thing , made stubb such an easi - go , unfear man , so cheerili trudg off with the burden of life in a world full of grave pedlar , all bow to the ground with their pack ; what help to bring about that almost impiou good - humor of hi ; that thing must have been hi pipe . for , like hi nose , hi short , black littl pipe wa one of the regular featur of hi face . you would almost as soon have expect him to turn out of hi bunk without hi nose as without hi pipe . He kept a whole row of pipe there readi load , stuck in a rack , within easi reach of hi hand ; and , whenev he turn in , he smoke them all out in success , light one from the other to the end of the chapter ; then load them again to be in readi anew . for , when stubb dress , instead of first put hi leg into hi trowser , he put hi pipe into hi mouth . I say thi continu smoke must have been one caus , at least , of hi peculiar disposit ; for everi one know that thi earthli air , whether ashor or afloat , is terribl infect with the nameless miseri of the numberless mortal who have die exhal it ; and as in time of the cholera , some peopl go about with a camphor handkerchief to their mouth ; so , likewis , against all mortal tribul , stubb ' s tobacco smoke might have oper as a sort of disinfect agent . the third mate wa flask , a nativ of tisburi , in martha ' s vineyard . A short , stout , ruddi young fellow , veri pugnaci concern whale , who somehow seem to think that the great leviathan had person and hereditarili affront him ; and therefor it wa a sort of point of honour with him , to destroy them whenev encount . So utterli lost wa he to all sens of rever for the mani marvel of their majest bulk and mystic way ; and so dead to anyth like an apprehens of ani possibl danger from encount them ; that in hi poor opinion , the wondrou whale wa but a speci of magnifi mous , or at least water - rat , requir onli a littl circumvent and some small applic of time and troubl in order to kill and boil . thi ignor , unconsci fearless of hi made him a littl waggish in the matter of whale ; he follow these fish for the fun of it ; and a three year ' voyag round cape horn wa onli a jolli joke that last that length of time . As a carpent ' s nail are divid into wrought nail and cut nail ; so mankind may be similarli divid . littl flask wa one of the wrought one ; made to clinch tight and last long . they call him king - post on board of the pequod ; becaus , in form , he could be well liken to the short , squar timber known by that name in arctic whaler ; and which by the mean of mani radiat side timber insert into it , serv to brace the ship against the ici concuss of those batter sea . now these three mate -- starbuck , stubb , and flask , were moment men . they it wa who by univers prescript command three of the pequod ' s boat as headsmen . In that grand order of battl in which captain ahab would probabl marshal hi forc to descend on the whale , these three headsmen were as captain of compani . Or , be arm with their long keen whale spear , they were as a pick trio of lancer ; even as the harpoon were flinger of javelin . and sinc in thi famou fisheri , each mate or headsman , like a gothic knight of old , is alway accompani by hi boat - steerer or harpoon , who in certain conjunctur provid him with a fresh lanc , when the former one ha been badli twist , or elbow in the assault ; and moreov , as there gener subsist between the two , a close intimaci and friendli ; it is therefor but meet , that in thi place we set down who the pequod ' s harpoon were , and to what headsman each of them belong . first of all wa queequeg , whom starbuck , the chief mate , had select for hi squir . but queequeg is alreadi known . next wa tashtego , an unmix indian from gay head , the most westerli promontori of martha ' s vineyard , where there still exist the last remnant of a villag of red men , which ha long suppli the neighbor island of nantucket with mani of her most dare harpoon . In the fisheri , they usual go by the gener name of gay - header . tashtego ' s long , lean , sabl hair , hi high cheek bone , and black round eye -- for an indian , orient in their larg , but antarct in their glitter express -- all thi suffici proclaim him an inheritor of the unviti blood of those proud warrior hunter , who , in quest of the great new england moos , had scour , bow in hand , the aborigin forest of the main . but no longer snuf in the trail of the wild beast of the woodland , tashtego now hunt in the wake of the great whale of the sea ; the uner harpoon of the son fitli replac the infal arrow of the sire . To look at the tawni brawn of hi lith snaki limb , you would almost have credit the superstit of some of the earlier puritan , and half - believ thi wild indian to be a son of the princ of the power of the air . tashtego wa stubb the second mate ' s squir . third among the harpoon wa daggoo , a gigant , coal - black negro - savag , with a lion - like tread -- an ahasueru to behold . suspend from hi ear were two golden hoop , so larg that the sailor call them ring - bolt , and would talk of secur the top - sail halyard to them . In hi youth daggoo had voluntarili ship on board of a whaler , lie in a lone bay on hi nativ coast . and never have been anywher in the world but in africa , nantucket , and the pagan harbor most frequent by whalemen ; and have now led for mani year the bold life of the fisheri in the ship of owner uncommonli heed of what manner of men they ship ; daggoo retain all hi barbar virtu , and erect as a giraff , move about the deck in all the pomp of six feet five in hi sock . there wa a corpor humil in look up at him ; and a white man stand befor him seem a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . curiou to tell , thi imperi negro , ahasueru daggoo , wa the squir of littl flask , who look like a chess - man besid him . As for the residu of the pequod ' s compani , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the mani thousand men befor the mast employ in the american whale fisheri , are american born , though pretti nearli all the offic are . herein it is the same with the american whale fisheri as with the american armi and militari and merchant navi , and the engin forc employ in the construct of the american canal and railroad . the same , I say , becaus in all these case the nativ american liber provid the brain , the rest of the world as gener suppli the muscl . No small number of these whale seamen belong to the azor , where the outward bound nantucket whaler frequent touch to augment their crew from the hardi peasant of those rocki shore . In like manner , the greenland whaler sail out of hull or london , put in at the shetland island , to receiv the full complement of their crew . upon the passag homeward , they drop them there again . how it is , there is no tell , but island seem to make the best whalemen . they were nearli all island in the pequod , isolato too , I call such , not acknowledg the common contin of men , but each isolato live on a separ contin of hi own . yet now , feder along one keel , what a set these isolato were ! An anacharsi clootz deput from all the isl of the sea , and all the end of the earth , accompani old ahab in the pequod to lay the world ' s grievanc befor that bar from which not veri mani of them ever come back . black littl pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went befor . poor alabama boy ! On the grim pequod ' s forecastl , ye shall ere long see him , beat hi tambourin ; prelus of the etern time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he wa bid strike in with angel , and beat hi tambourin in glori ; call a coward here , hail a hero there ! chapter 28 ahab . for sever day after leav nantucket , noth abov hatch wa seen of captain ahab . the mate regularli reliev each other at the watch , and for aught that could be seen to the contrari , they seem to be the onli command of the ship ; onli they sometim issu from the cabin with order so sudden and peremptori , that after all it wa plain they but command vicari . ye , their suprem lord and dictat wa there , though hitherto unseen by ani eye not permit to penetr into the now sacr retreat of the cabin . everi time I ascend to the deck from my watch below , I instantli gaze aft to mark if ani strang face were visibl ; for my first vagu disquietud touch the unknown captain , now in the seclus of the sea , becam almost a perturb . thi wa strang heighten at time by the rag elijah ' s diabol incoher uninvitedli recur to me , with a subtl energi I could not have befor conceiv of . but poorli could I withstand them , much as in other mood I wa almost readi to smile at the solemn whimsic of that outlandish prophet of the wharv . but whatev it wa of apprehens or uneasi -- to call it so -- which I felt , yet whenev I came to look about me in the ship , it seem against all warrantri to cherish such emot . for though the harpoon , with the great bodi of the crew , were a far more barbar , heathenish , and motley set than ani of the tame merchant - ship compani which my previou experi had made me acquaint with , still I ascrib thi -- and rightli ascrib it -- to the fierc uniqu of the veri natur of that wild scandinavian vocat in which I had so abandonedli embark . but it wa especi the aspect of the three chief offic of the ship , the mate , which wa most forcibl calcul to allay these colourless misgiv , and induc confid and cheer in everi present of the voyag . three better , more like sea - offic and men , each in hi own differ way , could not readili be found , and they were everi one of them american ; a nantucket , a vineyard , a cape man . now , it be christma when the ship shot from out her harbor , for a space we had bite polar weather , though all the time run away from it to the southward ; and by everi degre and minut of latitud which we sail , gradual leav that merciless winter , and all it intoler weather behind us . It wa one of those less lower , but still grey and gloomi enough morn of the transit , when with a fair wind the ship wa rush through the water with a vindict sort of leap and melancholi rapid , that as I mount to the deck at the call of the forenoon watch , so soon as I level my glanc toward the taffrail , forebod shiver ran over me . realiti outran apprehens ; captain ahab stood upon hi quarter - deck . there seem no sign of common bodili ill about him , nor of the recoveri from ani . He look like a man cut away from the stake , when the fire ha overrunningli wast all the limb without consum them , or take away one particl from their compact age robust . hi whole high , broad form , seem made of solid bronz , and shape in an unalter mould , like cellini ' s cast perseu . thread it way out from among hi grey hair , and continu right down one side of hi tawni scorch face and neck , till it disappear in hi cloth , you saw a slender rod - like mark , lividli whitish . It resembl that perpendicular seam sometim made in the straight , lofti trunk of a great tree , when the upper lightn tearingli dart down it , and without wrench a singl twig , peel and groov out the bark from top to bottom , ere run off into the soil , leav the tree still greenli aliv , but brand . whether that mark wa born with him , or whether it wa the scar left by some desper wound , no one could certainli say . By some tacit consent , throughout the voyag littl or no allus wa made to it , especi by the mate . but onc tashtego ' s senior , an old gay - head indian among the crew , superstiti assert that not till he wa full forti year old did ahab becom that way brand , and then it came upon him , not in the furi of ani mortal fray , but in an element strife at sea . yet , thi wild hint seem inferenti negativ , by what a grey manxman insinu , an old sepulchr man , who , have never befor sail out of nantucket , had never ere thi laid eye upon wild ahab . nevertheless , the old sea - tradit , the immemori credul , popularli invest thi old manxman with preternatur power of discern . So that no white sailor serious contradict him when he said that if ever captain ahab should be tranquilli laid out -- which might hardli come to pass , so he mutter -- then , whoever should do that last offic for the dead , would find a birth - mark on him from crown to sole . So power did the whole grim aspect of ahab affect me , and the livid brand which streak it , that for the first few moment I hardli note that not a littl of thi overbear grim wa owe to the barbar white leg upon which he partli stood . It had previous come to me that thi ivori leg had at sea been fashion from the polish bone of the sperm whale ' s jaw . `` aye , he wa dismast off japan , '' said the old gay - head indian onc ; `` but like hi dismast craft , he ship anoth mast without come home for it . He ha a quiver of ' em . '' I wa struck with the singular postur he maintain . upon each side of the pequod ' s quarter deck , and pretti close to the mizzen shroud , there wa an auger hole , bore about half an inch or so , into the plank . hi bone leg steadi in that hole ; one arm elev , and hold by a shroud ; captain ahab stood erect , look straight out beyond the ship ' s ever - pitch prow . there wa an infin of firmest fortitud , a determin , unsurrender wil , in the fix and fearless , forward dedic of that glanc . not a word he spoke ; nor did hi offic say aught to him ; though by all their minutest gestur and express , they plainli show the uneasi , if not pain , conscious of be under a troubl master - eye . and not onli that , but moodi stricken ahab stood befor them with a crucifixion in hi face ; in all the nameless regal overbear digniti of some mighti woe . ere long , from hi first visit in the air , he withdrew into hi cabin . but after that morn , he wa everi day visibl to the crew ; either stand in hi pivot - hole , or seat upon an ivori stool he had ; or heavili walk the deck . As the sky grew less gloomi ; inde , began to grow a littl genial , he becam still less and less a reclus ; as if , when the ship had sail from home , noth but the dead wintri bleak of the sea had then kept him so seclud . and , by and by , it came to pass , that he wa almost continu in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or percept did , on the at last sunni deck , he seem as unnecessari there as anoth mast . but the pequod wa onli make a passag now ; not regularli cruis ; nearli all whale prepar need supervis the mate were fulli compet to , so that there wa littl or noth , out of himself , to employ or excit ahab , now ; and thu chase away , for that one interv , the cloud that layer upon layer were pile upon hi brow , as ever all cloud choos the loftiest peak to pile themselv upon . nevertheless , ere long , the warm , warbl persuas of the pleasant , holiday weather we came to , seem gradual to charm him from hi mood . for , as when the red - cheek , danc girl , april and may , trip home to the wintri , misanthrop wood ; even the barest , ruggedest , most thunder - cloven old oak will at least send forth some few green sprout , to welcom such glad - heart visit ; so ahab did , in the end , a littl respond to the play allur of that girlish air . more than onc did he put forth the faint blossom of a look , which , in ani other man , would have soon flower out in a smile . chapter 29 enter ahab ; to him , stubb . some day elaps , and ice and iceberg all astern , the pequod now went roll through the bright quito spring , which , at sea , almost perpetu reign on the threshold of the etern august of the tropic . the warmli cool , clear , ring , perfum , overflow , redund day , were as crystal goblet of persian sherbet , heap up -- flake up , with rose - water snow . the star and state night seem haughti dame in jewel velvet , nurs at home in lone pride , the memori of their absent conquer earl , the golden helmet sun ! for sleep man , ' twa hard to choos between such winsom day and such seduc night . but all the witcheri of that unwan weather did not mere lend new spell and potenc to the outward world . inward they turn upon the soul , especi when the still mild hour of eve came on ; then , memori shot her crystal as the clear ice most form of noiseless twilight . and all these subtl agenc , more and more they wrought on ahab ' s textur . old age is alway wake ; as if , the longer link with life , the less man ha to do with aught that look like death . among sea - command , the old greybeard will oftenest leav their berth to visit the night - cloak deck . It wa so with ahab ; onli that now , of late , he seem so much to live in the open air , that truli speak , hi visit were more to the cabin , than from the cabin to the plank . `` It feel like go down into one ' s tomb , '' -- he would mutter to himself -- '' for an old captain like me to be descend thi narrow scuttl , to go to my grave - dug berth . '' So , almost everi twenti - four hour , when the watch of the night were set , and the band on deck sentinel the slumber of the band below ; and when if a rope wa to be haul upon the forecastl , the sailor flung it not rude down , as by day , but with some cautious dropt it to it place for fear of disturb their slumber shipmat ; when thi sort of steadi quietud would begin to prevail , habitu , the silent steersman would watch the cabin - scuttl ; and ere long the old man would emerg , grip at the iron banist , to help hi crippl way . some consid touch of human wa in him ; for at time like these , he usual abstain from patrol the quarter - deck ; becaus to hi weari mate , seek repos within six inch of hi ivori heel , such would have been the reverber crack and din of that boni step , that their dream would have been on the crunch teeth of shark . but onc , the mood wa on him too deep for common regard ; and as with heavi , lumber - like pace he wa measur the ship from taffrail to mainmast , stubb , the old second mate , came up from below , with a certain unassur , deprec humor , hint that if captain ahab wa pleas to walk the plank , then , no one could say nay ; but there might be some way of muffl the nois ; hint someth indistinctli and hesitatingli about a globe of tow , and the insert into it , of the ivori heel . Ah ! stubb , thou didst not know ahab then . `` Am I a cannon - ball , stubb , '' said ahab , `` that thou wouldst wad me that fashion ? but go thi way ; I had forgot . below to thi nightli grave ; where such as ye sleep between shroud , to use ye to the fill one at last . -- down , dog , and kennel ! '' start at the unforseen conclud exclam of the so suddenli scorn old man , stubb wa speechless a moment ; then said excitedli , `` I am not use to be spoken to that way , sir ; I do but less than half like it , sir . '' `` avast ! grit ahab between hi set teeth , and violent move away , as if to avoid some passion temptat . `` No , sir ; not yet , '' said stubb , embolden , `` I will not tame be call a dog , sir . '' `` then be call ten time a donkey , and a mule , and an ass , and begon , or I ' ll clear the world of thee ! '' As he said thi , ahab advanc upon him with such overbear terror in hi aspect , that stubb involuntarili retreat . `` I wa never serv so befor without give a hard blow for it , '' mutter stubb , as he found himself descend the cabin - scuttl . `` It ' s veri queer . stop , stubb ; somehow , now , I don ' t well know whether to go back and strike him , or -- what ' s that ? -- down here on my knee and pray for him ? ye , that wa the thought come up in me ; but it would be the first time I ever did pray . It ' s queer ; veri queer ; and he ' s queer too ; aye , take him fore and aft , he ' s about the queerest old man stubb ever sail with . how he flash at me ! -- hi eye like powder - pan ! is he mad ? anyway there ' s someth on hi mind , as sure as there must be someth on a deck when it crack . He aint in hi bed now , either , more than three hour out of the twenti - four ; and he don ' t sleep then . didn ' t that dough - boy , the steward , tell me that of a morn he alway find the old man ' s hammock cloth all rumpl and tumbl , and the sheet down at the foot , and the coverlid almost tie into knot , and the pillow a sort of fright hot , as though a bake brick had been on it ? A hot old man ! I guess he ' s got what some folk ashor call a conscienc ; it ' s a kind of tic - dolli - row they say -- wors nor a toothach . well , well ; I don ' t know what it is , but the lord keep me from catch it . He ' s full of riddl ; I wonder what he goe into the after hold for , everi night , as dough - boy tell me he suspect ; what ' s that for , I should like to know ? who ' s made appoint with him in the hold ? ain ' t that queer , now ? but there ' s no tell , it ' s the old game -- here goe for a snooz . damn me , it ' s worth a fellow ' s while to be born into the world , if onli to fall right asleep . and now that I think of it , that ' s about the first thing babi do , and that ' s a sort of queer , too . damn me , but all thing are queer , come to think of ' em . but that ' s against my principl . think not , is my eleventh command ; and sleep when you can , is my twelfth -- So here goe again . but how ' s that ? didn ' t he call me a dog ? blaze ! he call me ten time a donkey , and pile a lot of jackass on top of that ! He might as well have kick me , and done with it . mayb he did kick me , and I didn ' t observ it , I wa so taken all aback with hi brow , somehow . It flash like a bleach bone . what the devil ' s the matter with me ? I don ' t stand right on my leg . come afoul of that old man ha a sort of turn me wrong side out . By the lord , I must have been dream , though -- how ? how ? how ? -- but the onli way ' s to stash it ; so here goe to hammock again ; and in the morn , I ' ll see how thi plaguey juggl think over by daylight . '' chapter 30 the pipe . when stubb had depart , ahab stood for a while lean over the bulwark ; and then , as had been usual with him of late , call a sailor of the watch , he sent him below for hi ivori stool , and also hi pipe . light the pipe at the binnacl lamp and plant the stool on the weather side of the deck , he sat and smoke . In old nors time , the throne of the sea - love danish king were fabric , saith tradit , of the tusk of the narwhal . how could one look at ahab then , seat on that tripod of bone , without bethink him of the royalti it symbol ? for a khan of the plank , and a king of the sea , and a great lord of leviathan wa ahab . some moment pass , dure which the thick vapour came from hi mouth in quick and constant puff , which blew back again into hi face . `` how now , '' he soliloqu at last , withdraw the tube , `` thi smoke no longer sooth . Oh , my pipe ! hard must it go with me if thi charm be gone ! here have I been unconsci toil , not pleasur -- aye , and ignorantli smoke to windward all the while ; to windward , and with such nervou whiff , as if , like the die whale , my final jet were the strongest and fullest of troubl . what busi have I with thi pipe ? thi thing that is meant for seren , to send up mild white vapour among mild white hair , not among torn iron - grey lock like mine . I ' ll smoke no more -- '' He toss the still light pipe into the sea . the fire hiss in the wave ; the same instant the ship shot by the bubbl the sink pipe made . with slouch hat , ahab lurchingli pace the plank . chapter 31 queen mab . next morn stubb accost flask . `` such a queer dream , king - post , I never had . you know the old man ' s ivori leg , well I dream he kick me with it ; and when I tri to kick back , upon my soul , my littl man , I kick my leg right off ! and then , presto ! ahab seem a pyramid , and I , like a blaze fool , kept kick at it . but what wa still more curiou , flask -- you know how curiou all dream are -- through all thi rage that I wa in , I somehow seem to be think to myself , that after all , it wa not much of an insult , that kick from ahab . ' whi , ' think I , ' what ' s the row ? It ' s not a real leg , onli a fals leg . ' and there ' s a mighti differ between a live thump and a dead thump . that ' s what make a blow from the hand , flask , fifti time more savag to bear than a blow from a cane . the live member -- that make the live insult , my littl man . and think I to myself all the while , mind , while I wa stub my silli toe against that curs pyramid -- so confoundedli contradictori wa it all , all the while , I say , I wa think to myself , ' what ' s hi leg now , but a cane -- a whalebon cane . ye , ' think I , ' it wa onli a play cudgel -- in fact , onli a whalebon that he gave me -- not a base kick . besid , ' think I , ' look at it onc ; whi , the end of it -- the foot part -- what a small sort of end it is ; wherea , if a broad foot farmer kick me , there ' S a devilish broad insult . but thi insult is whittl down to a point onli . ' but now come the greatest joke of the dream , flask . while I wa batter away at the pyramid , a sort of badger - hair old merman , with a hump on hi back , take me by the shoulder , and slew me round . ' what are you ' bout ? ' say he . slid ! man , but I wa frighten . such a phiz ! but , somehow , next moment I wa over the fright . ' what am I about ? ' say I at last . ' and what busi is that of your , I should like to know , Mr . humpback ? Do you want a kick ? ' By the lord , flask , I had no sooner said that , than he turn round hi stern to me , bent over , and drag up a lot of seawe he had for a clout -- what do you think , I saw ? -- whi thunder aliv , man , hi stern wa stuck full of marlinspik , with the point out . say I , on second thought , ' I guess I won ' t kick you , old fellow . ' ' wise stubb , ' said he , ' wise stubb ; ' and kept mutter it all the time , a sort of eat of hi own gum like a chimney hag . see he wasn ' t go to stop say over hi ' wise stubb , wise stubb , ' I thought I might as well fall to kick the pyramid again . but I had onli just lift my foot for it , when he roar out , ' stop that kick ! ' ' halloa , ' say I , ' what ' s the matter now , old fellow ? ' ' look ye here , ' say he ; ' let ' s argu the insult . captain ahab kick ye , didn ' t he ? ' ' ye , he did , ' say I -- ' right here it wa . ' ' veri good , ' say he -- ' he use hi ivori leg , didn ' t he ? ' ' ye , he did , ' say I . ' well then , ' say he , ' wise stubb , what have you to complain of ? didn ' t he kick with right good will ? it wasn ' t a common pitch pine leg he kick with , wa it ? No , you were kick by a great man , and with a beauti ivori leg , stubb . It ' s an honour ; I consid it an honour . listen , wise stubb . In old england the greatest lord think it great glori to be slap by a queen , and made garter - knight of ; but , be your boast , stubb , that ye were kick by old ahab , and made a wise man of . rememb what I say ; BE kick by him ; account hi kick honour ; and on no account kick back ; for you can ' t help yourself , wise stubb . don ' t you see that pyramid ? ' with that , he all of a sudden seem somehow , in some queer fashion , to swim off into the air . I snore ; roll over ; and there I wa in my hammock ! now , what do you think of that dream , flask ? '' `` I don ' t know ; it seem a sort of foolish to me , tho . ' '' `` may be ; may be . but it ' s made a wise man of me , flask . D ' ye see ahab stand there , sideway look over the stern ? well , the best thing you can do , flask , is to let the old man alon ; never speak to him , whatev he say . halloa ! what ' s that he shout ? hark ! '' `` mast - head , there ! look sharp , all of ye ! there are whale hereabout ! If ye see a white one , split your lung for him ! `` what do you think of that now , flask ? ain ' t there a small drop of someth queer about that , eh ? A white whale -- did ye mark that , man ? look ye -- there ' s someth special in the wind . stand by for it , flask . ahab ha that that ' s bloodi on hi mind . but , mum ; he come thi way . '' chapter 32 cetolog . alreadi we are boldli launch upon the deep ; but soon we shall be lost in it unshor , harbourless immens . ere that come to pass ; ere the pequod ' s weedi hull roll side by side with the barnacl hull of the leviathan ; at the outset it is but well to attend to a matter almost indispens to a thorough appreci understand of the more special leviathan revel and allus of all sort which are to follow . It is some systemat exhibit of the whale in hi broad genera , that I would now fain put befor you . yet is it no easi task . the classif of the constitu of a chao , noth less is here essay . listen to what the best and latest author have laid down . `` No branch of zoolog is so much involv as that which is entitl cetolog , '' say captain scoresbi , A . D . 1820 . `` It is not my intent , were it in my power , to enter into the inquiri as to the true method of divid the cetacea into group and famili .... utter confus exist among the historian of thi anim `` ( sperm whale ) , say surgeon beal , A . D . 1839 . `` unfit to pursu our research in the unfathom water . '' `` impenetr veil cover our knowledg of the cetacea . '' `` A field strewn with thorn . '' `` all these incomplet indic but serv to tortur us naturalist . '' thu speak of the whale , the great cuvier , and john hunter , and lesson , those light of zoolog and anatomi . nevertheless , though of real knowledg there be littl , yet of book there are a plenti ; and so in some small degre , with cetolog , or the scienc of whale . mani are the men , small and great , old and new , landsmen and seamen , who have at larg or in littl , written of the whale . run over a few : -- the author of the bibl ; aristotl ; plini ; aldrovandi ; sir thoma brown ; gesner ; ray ; linnaeu ; rondeletiu ; willoughbi ; green ; artedi ; sibbald ; brisson ; marten ; laceped ; bonneterr ; desmarest ; baron cuvier ; frederick cuvier ; john hunter ; owen ; scoresbi ; beal ; bennett ; J . ross brown ; the author of miriam coffin ; olmstead ; and the rev . T . cheever . but to what ultim gener purpos all these have written , the abov cite extract will show . Of the name in thi list of whale author , onli those follow owen ever saw live whale ; and but one of them wa a real profession harpoon and whaleman . I mean captain scoresbi . On the separ subject of the greenland or right - whale , he is the best exist author . but scoresbi knew noth and say noth of the great sperm whale , compar with which the greenland whale is almost unworthi mention . and here be it said , that the greenland whale is an usurp upon the throne of the sea . He is not even by ani mean the largest of the whale . yet , owe to the long prioriti of hi claim , and the profound ignor which , till some seventi year back , invest the then fabul or utterli unknown sperm - whale , and which ignor to thi present day still reign in all but some few scientif retreat and whale - port ; thi usurp ha been everi way complet . refer to nearli all the leviathan allus in the great poet of past day , will satisfi you that the greenland whale , without one rival , wa to them the monarch of the sea . but the time ha at last come for a new proclam . thi is chare cross ; hear ye ! good peopl all , -- the greenland whale is depos , -- the great sperm whale now reigneth ! there are onli two book in be which at all pretend to put the live sperm whale befor you , and at the same time , in the remotest degre succeed in the attempt . those book are beal ' s and bennett ' s ; both in their time surgeon to english south - sea whale - ship , and both exact and reliabl men . the origin matter touch the sperm whale to be found in their volum is necessarili small ; but so far as it goe , it is of excel qualiti , though mostli confin to scientif descript . As yet , howev , the sperm whale , scientif or poetic , live not complet in ani literatur . far abov all other hunt whale , hi is an unwritten life . now the variou speci of whale need some sort of popular comprehens classif , if onli an easi outlin one for the present , hereaft to be fill in all it depart by subsequ labor . As no better man advanc to take thi matter in hand , I hereupon offer my own poor endeavor . I promis noth complet ; becaus ani human thing suppos to be complet , must for that veri reason infal be faulti . I shall not pretend to a minut anatom descript of the variou speci , or -- in thi place at least -- to much of ani descript . My object here is simpli to project the draught of a systemat of cetolog . I am the architect , not the builder . but it is a ponder task ; no ordinari letter - sorter in the post - offic is equal to it . To grope down into the bottom of the sea after them ; to have one ' s hand among the unspeak foundat , rib , and veri pelvi of the world ; thi is a fear thing . what am I that I should essay to hook the nose of thi leviathan ! the aw taunt in job might well appal me . `` will he the ( leviathan ) make a coven with thee ? behold the hope of him is vain ! but I have swam through librari and sail through ocean ; I have had to do with whale with these visibl hand ; I am in earnest ; and I will tri . there are some preliminari to settl . first : the uncertain , unsettl condit of thi scienc of cetolog is in the veri vestibul attest by the fact , that in some quarter it still remain a moot point whether a whale be a fish . In hi system of natur , A . D . 1776 , linnaeu declar , `` I herebi separ the whale from the fish . '' but of my own knowledg , I know that down to the year 1850 , shark and shad , alew and her , against linnaeu ' s express edict , were still found divid the possess of the same sea with the leviathan . the ground upon which linnaeu would fain have banish the whale from the water , he state as follow : `` On account of their warm bilocular heart , their lung , their movabl eyelid , their hollow ear , penem intrantem feminam mammi lactantem , '' and final , `` ex lege natura jure meritoqu . '' I submit all thi to my friend simeon macey and charley coffin , of nantucket , both messmat of mine in a certain voyag , and they unit in the opinion that the reason set forth were altogeth insuffici . charley profan hint they were humbug . Be it known that , waiv all argument , I take the good old fashion ground that the whale is a fish , and call upon holi jonah to back me . thi fundament thing settl , the next point is , in what intern respect doe the whale differ from other fish . abov , linnaeu ha given you those item . but in brief , they are these : lung and warm blood ; wherea , all other fish are lungless and cold blood . next : how shall we defin the whale , by hi obviou extern , so as conspicu to label him for all time to come ? To be short , then , a whale is A spout fish with A horizont tail . there you have him . howev contract , that definit is the result of expand medit . A walru spout much like a whale , but the walru is not a fish , becaus he is amphibi . but the last term of the definit is still more cogent , as coupl with the first . almost ani one must have notic that all the fish familiar to landsmen have not a flat , but a vertic , or up - and - down tail . wherea , among spout fish the tail , though it may be similarli shape , invari assum a horizont posit . By the abov definit of what a whale is , I do by no mean exclud from the leviathan brotherhood ani sea creatur hitherto identifi with the whale by the best inform nantucket ; nor , on the other hand , link with it ani fish hitherto authorit regard as alien . * henc , all the smaller , spout , and horizont tail fish must be includ in thi ground - plan of cetolog . now , then , come the grand divis of the entir whale host . * I am awar that down to the present time , the fish style lamatin and dugong ( pig - fish and sow - fish of the coffin of nantucket ) are includ by mani naturalist among the whale . but as these pig - fish are a noisi , contempt set , mostli lurk in the mouth of river , and feed on wet hay , and especi as they do not spout , I deni their credenti as whale ; and have present them with their passport to quit the kingdom of cetolog . first : accord to magnitud I divid the whale into three primari book ( subdivis into chapter ) , and these shall comprehend them all , both small and larg . I . the folio whale ; II . the octavo whale ; iii . the duodecimo whale . As the type of the folio I present the sperm whale ; of the octavo , the grampu ; of the duodecimo , the porpois . folio . among these I here includ the follow chapter : -- I . the sperm whale ; II . the right whale ; iii . the fin - back whale ; IV . the hump - back whale ; V . the razor - back whale ; VI . the sulphur - bottom whale . book I . ( folio ) , chapter I . ( sperm whale ) . -- thi whale , among the english of old vagu known as the trumpa whale , and the physet whale , and the anvil head whale , is the present cachalot of the french , and the pottsfich of the german , and the macrocephalu of the long word . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabit of the globe ; the most formid of all whale to encount ; the most majest in aspect ; and lastli , by far the most valuabl in commerc ; he be the onli creatur from which that valuabl substanc , spermaceti , is obtain . all hi peculiar will , in mani other place , be enlarg upon . It is chiefli with hi name that I now have to do . philolog consid , it is absurd . some centuri ago , when the sperm whale wa almost wholli unknown in hi own proper individu , and when hi oil wa onli accident obtain from the strand fish ; in those day spermaceti , it would seem , wa popularli suppos to be deriv from a creatur ident with the one then known in england as the greenland or right whale . It wa the idea also , that thi same spermaceti wa that quicken humor of the greenland whale which the first syllabl of the word liter express . In those time , also , spermaceti wa exceedingli scarc , not be use for light , but onli as an ointment and medica . It wa onli to be had from the druggist as you nowaday buy an ounc of rhubarb . when , as I opin , in the cours of time , the true natur of spermaceti becam known , it origin name wa still retain by the dealer ; no doubt to enhanc it valu by a notion so strang signific of it scarciti . and so the appel must at last have come to be bestow upon the whale from which thi spermaceti wa realli deriv . book I . ( folio ) , chapter II . ( right whale ) . -- In one respect thi is the most vener of the leviathan , be the one first regularli hunt by man . It yield the articl commonli known as whalebon or baleen ; and the oil special known as `` whale oil , '' an inferior articl in commerc . among the fishermen , he is indiscrimin design by all the follow titl : the whale ; the greenland whale ; the black whale ; the great whale ; the true whale ; the right whale . there is a deal of obscur concern the ident of the speci thu multitudin baptis . what then is the whale , which I includ in the second speci of my folio ? It is the great mysticetu of the english naturalist ; the greenland whale of the english whalemen ; the balien ordinair of the french whalemen ; the growland walfish of the swede . It is the whale which for more than two centuri past ha been hunt by the dutch and english in the arctic sea ; it is the whale which the american fishermen have long pursu in the indian ocean , on the brazil bank , on the nor ' west coast , and variou other part of the world , design by them right whale cruis ground . some pretend to see a differ between the greenland whale of the english and the right whale of the american . but they precis agre in all their grand featur ; nor ha there yet been present a singl determin fact upon which to ground a radic distinct . It is by endless subdivis base upon the most inconclus differ , that some depart of natur histori becom so repellingli intric . the right whale will be elsewher treat of at some length , with refer to elucid the sperm whale . book I . ( folio ) , chapter iii . ( fin - back ) . -- under thi head I reckon a monster which , by the variou name of fin - back , tall - spout , and long - john , ha been seen almost in everi sea and is commonli the whale whose distant jet is so often descri by passeng cross the atlant , in the new york packet - track . In the length he attain , and in hi baleen , the fin - back resembl the right whale , but is of a less portli girth , and a lighter colour , approach to oliv . hi great lip present a cabl - like aspect , form by the intertwist , slant fold of larg wrinkl . hi grand distinguish featur , the fin , from which he deriv hi name , is often a conspicu object . thi fin is some three or four feet long , grow vertic from the hinder part of the back , of an angular shape , and with a veri sharp point end . even if not the slightest other part of the creatur be visibl , thi isol fin will , at time , be seen plainli project from the surfac . when the sea is moder calm , and slightli mark with spheric rippl , and thi gnomon - like fin stand up and cast shadow upon the wrinkl surfac , it may well be suppos that the wateri circl surround it somewhat resembl a dial , with it style and wavi hour - line grave on it . On that ahaz - dial the shadow often goe back . the fin - back is not gregari . He seem a whale - hater , as some men are man - hater . veri shi ; alway go solitari ; unexpectedli rise to the surfac in the remotest and most sullen water ; hi straight and singl lofti jet rise like a tall misanthrop spear upon a barren plain ; gift with such wondrou power and veloc in swim , as to defi all present pursuit from man ; thi leviathan seem the banish and unconquer cain of hi race , bear for hi mark that style upon hi back . from have the baleen in hi mouth , the fin - back is sometim includ with the right whale , among a theoret speci denomin whalebon whale , that is , whale with baleen . Of these so call whalebon whale , there would seem to be sever varieti , most of which , howev , are littl known . broad - nose whale and beak whale ; pike - head whale ; bunch whale ; under - jaw whale and rostrat whale , are the fishermen ' s name for a few sort . In connect with thi appel of `` whalebon whale , '' it is of great import to mention , that howev such a nomenclatur may be conveni in facilit allus to some kind of whale , yet it is in vain to attempt a clear classif of the leviathan , found upon either hi baleen , or hump , or fin , or teeth ; notwithstand that those mark part or featur veri obvious seem better adapt to afford the basi for a regular system of cetolog than ani other detach bodili distinct , which the whale , in hi kind , present . how then ? the baleen , hump , back - fin , and teeth ; these are thing whose peculiar are indiscrimin dispers among all sort of whale , without ani regard to what may be the natur of their structur in other and more essenti particular . thu , the sperm whale and the humpback whale , each ha a hump ; but there the similitud ceas . then , thi same humpback whale and the greenland whale , each of these ha baleen ; but there again the similitud ceas . and it is just the same with the other part abov mention . In variou sort of whale , they form such irregular combin ; or , in the case of ani one of them detach , such an irregular isol ; as utterli to defi all gener method form upon such a basi . On thi rock everi one of the whale - naturalist ha split . but it may possibl be conceiv that , in the intern part of the whale , in hi anatomi -- there , at least , we shall be abl to hit the right classif . nay ; what thing , for exampl , is there in the greenland whale ' s anatomi more strike than hi baleen ? yet we have seen that by hi baleen it is imposs correctli to classifi the greenland whale . and if you descend into the bowel of the variou leviathan , whi there you will not find distinct a fiftieth part as avail to the systemat as those extern one alreadi enumer . what then remain ? noth but to take hold of the whale bodili , in their entir liber volum , and boldli sort them that way . and thi is the bibliograph system here adopt ; and it is the onli one that can possibl succeed , for it alon is practic . To proceed . book I . ( folio ) chapter IV . ( hump - back ) . -- thi whale is often seen on the northern american coast . He ha been frequent captur there , and tow into harbor . He ha a great pack on him like a peddler ; or you might call him the eleph and castl whale . At ani rate , the popular name for him doe not suffici distinguish him , sinc the sperm whale also ha a hump though a smaller one . hi oil is not veri valuabl . He ha baleen . He is the most gamesom and light - heart of all the whale , make more gay foam and white water gener than ani other of them . book I . ( folio ) , chapter V . ( razor - back ) . -- Of thi whale littl is known but hi name . I have seen him at a distanc off cape horn . Of a retir natur , he elud both hunter and philosoph . though no coward , he ha never yet shown ani part of him but hi back , which rise in a long sharp ridg . let him go . I know littl more of him , nor doe anybodi els . book I . ( folio ) , chapter VI . ( sulphur - bottom ) . -- anoth retir gentleman , with a brimston belli , doubtless got by scrape along the tartarian tile in some of hi profound dive . He is seldom seen ; at least I have never seen him except in the remot southern sea , and then alway at too great a distanc to studi hi counten . He is never chase ; he would run away with rope - walk of line . prodigi are told of him . adieu , sulphur bottom ! I can say noth more that is true of ye , nor can the oldest nantucket . thu end book I . ( folio ) , and now begin book II . ( octavo ) . octavo . * -- these embrac the whale of middl magnitud , among which present may be number : -- I . , the grampu ; II . , the black fish ; iii . , the narwhal ; IV . , the thrasher ; V . , the killer . * whi thi book of whale is not denomin the quarto is veri plain . becaus , while the whale of thi order , though smaller than those of the former order , nevertheless retain a proportion like to them in figur , yet the bookbind ' s quarto volum in it dimens form doe not preserv the shape of the folio volum , but the octavo volum doe . book II . ( octavo ) , chapter I . ( grampu ) . -- though thi fish , whose loud sonor breath , or rather blow , ha furnish a proverb to landsmen , is so well known a denizen of the deep , yet is he not popularli class among whale . but possess all the grand distinct featur of the leviathan , most naturalist have recognis him for one . He is of moder octavo size , vari from fifteen to twenti - five feet in length , and of correspond dimens round the waist . He swim in herd ; he is never regularli hunt , though hi oil is consider in quantiti , and pretti good for light . By some fishermen hi approach is regard as premonitori of the advanc of the great sperm whale . book II . ( octavo ) , chapter II . ( black fish ) . -- I give the popular fishermen ' s name for all these fish , for gener they are the best . where ani name happen to be vagu or inexpress , I shall say so , and suggest anoth . I do so now , touch the black fish , so - call , becaus black is the rule among almost all whale . So , call him the hyena whale , if you pleas . hi vorac is well known , and from the circumst that the inner angl of hi lip are curv upward , he carri an everlast mephistophelean grin on hi face . thi whale averag some sixteen or eighteen feet in length . He is found in almost all latitud . He ha a peculiar way of show hi dorsal hook fin in swim , which look someth like a roman nose . when not more profit employ , the sperm whale hunter sometim captur the hyena whale , to keep up the suppli of cheap oil for domest employ -- as some frugal housekeep , in the absenc of compani , and quit alon by themselv , burn unsavori tallow instead of odor wax . though their blubber is veri thin , some of these whale will yield you upward of thirti gallon of oil . book II . ( octavo ) , chapter iii . ( narwhal ) , that is , nostril whale . -- anoth instanc of a curious name whale , so name I suppos from hi peculiar horn be origin mistaken for a peak nose . the creatur is some sixteen feet in length , while it horn averag five feet , though some exceed ten , and even attain to fifteen feet . strictli speak , thi horn is but a lengthen tusk , grow out from the jaw in a line a littl depress from the horizont . but it is onli found on the sinist side , which ha an ill effect , give it owner someth analog to the aspect of a clumsi left - hand man . what precis purpos thi ivori horn or lanc answer , it would be hard to say . It doe not seem to be use like the blade of the sword - fish and bill - fish ; though some sailor tell me that the narwhal employ it for a rake in turn over the bottom of the sea for food . charley coffin said it wa use for an ice - piercer ; for the narwhal , rise to the surfac of the polar sea , and find it sheet with ice , thrust hi horn up , and so break through . but you can not prove either of these surmis to be correct . My own opinion is , that howev thi one - side horn may realli be use by the narwhal -- howev that may be -- it would certainli be veri conveni to him for a folder in read pamphlet . the narwhal I have heard call the tusk whale , the horn whale , and the unicorn whale . He is certainli a curiou exampl of the unicorn to be found in almost everi kingdom of anim natur . from certain cloister old author I have gather that thi same sea - unicorn ' s horn wa in ancient day regard as the great antidot against poison , and as such , prepar of it brought immens price . It wa also distil to a volatil salt for faint ladi , the same way that the horn of the male deer are manufactur into hartshorn . origin it wa in itself account an object of great curios . black letter tell me that sir martin frobish on hi return from that voyag , when queen bess did gallantli wave her jewel hand to him from a window of greenwich palac , as hi bold ship sail down the thame ; `` when sir martin return from that voyag , '' saith black letter , `` on bend knee he present to her high a prodigi long horn of the narwhal , which for a long period after hung in the castl at windsor . '' An irish author aver that the earl of leicest , on bend knee , did likewis present to her high anoth horn , pertain to a land beast of the unicorn natur . the narwhal ha a veri picturesqu , leopard - like look , be of a milk - white ground colour , dot with round and oblong spot of black . hi oil is veri superior , clear and fine ; but there is littl of it , and he is seldom hunt . He is mostli found in the circumpolar sea . book II . ( octavo ) , chapter IV . ( killer ) . -- Of thi whale littl is precis known to the nantucket , and noth at all to the profess naturalist . from what I have seen of him at a distanc , I should say that he wa about the big of a grampu . He is veri savag -- a sort of feege fish . He sometim take the great folio whale by the lip , and hang there like a leech , till the mighti brute is worri to death . the killer is never hunt . I never heard what sort of oil he ha . except might be taken to the name bestow upon thi whale , on the ground of it indistinct . for we are all killer , on land and on sea ; bonapart and shark includ . book II . ( octavo ) , chapter V . ( thrasher ) . -- thi gentleman is famou for hi tail , which he use for a ferul in thrash hi foe . He mount the folio whale ' s back , and as he swim , he work hi passag by flog him ; as some schoolmast get along in the world by a similar process . still less is known of the thrasher than of the killer . both are outlaw , even in the lawless sea . thu end book II . ( octavo ) , and begin book iii . ( duodecimo ) . duodecimo . -- these includ the smaller whale . I . the huzza porpois . II . the algerin porpois . iii . the meali - mouth porpois . To those who have not chanc special to studi the subject , it may possibl seem strang , that fish not commonli exceed four or five feet should be marshal among whale -- a word , which , in the popular sens , alway convey an idea of huge . but the creatur set down abov as duodecimo are infal whale , by the term of my definit of what a whale is -- i . e . a spout fish , with a horizont tail . book iii . ( duodecimo ) , chapter 1 . ( huzza porpois ) . -- thi is the common porpois found almost all over the globe . the name is of my own bestow ; for there are more than one sort of porpois , and someth must be done to distinguish them . I call him thu , becaus he alway swim in hilari shoal , which upon the broad sea keep toss themselv to heaven like cap in a fourth - of - juli crowd . their appear is gener hail with delight by the marin . full of fine spirit , they invari come from the breezi billow to windward . they are the lad that alway live befor the wind . they are account a lucki omen . If you yourself can withstand three cheer at behold these vivaci fish , then heaven help ye ; the spirit of godli gamesom is not in ye . A well - fed , plump huzza porpois will yield you one good gallon of good oil . but the fine and delic fluid extract from hi jaw is exceedingli valuabl . It is in request among jewel and watchmak . sailor put it on their hone . porpois meat is good eat , you know . It may never have occur to you that a porpois spout . inde , hi spout is so small that it is not veri readili discern . but the next time you have a chanc , watch him ; and you will then see the great sperm whale himself in miniatur . book iii . ( duodecimo ) , chapter II . ( algerin porpois ) . -- A pirat . veri savag . He is onli found , I think , in the pacif . He is somewhat larger than the huzza porpois , but much of the same gener make . provok him , and he will buckl to a shark . I have lower for him mani time , but never yet saw him captur . book iii . ( duodecimo ) , chapter iii . ( meali - mouth porpois ) . -- the largest kind of porpois ; and onli found in the pacif , so far as it is known . the onli english name , by which he ha hitherto been design , is that of the fisher -- right - whale porpois , from the circumst that he is chiefli found in the vicin of that folio . In shape , he differ in some degre from the huzza porpois , be of a less rotund and jolli girth ; inde , he is of quit a neat and gentleman - like figur . He ha no fin on hi back ( most other porpois have ) , he ha a love tail , and sentiment indian eye of a hazel hue . but hi meali - mouth spoil all . though hi entir back down to hi side fin is of a deep sabl , yet a boundari line , distinct as the mark in a ship ' s hull , call the `` bright waist , '' that line streak him from stem to stern , with two separ colour , black abov and white below . the white compris part of hi head , and the whole of hi mouth , which make him look as if he had just escap from a feloni visit to a meal - bag . A most mean and meali aspect ! hi oil is much like that of the common porpois . beyond the duodecimo , thi system doe not proceed , inasmuch as the porpois is the smallest of the whale . abov , you have all the leviathan of note . but there are a rabbl of uncertain , fugit , half - fabul whale , which , as an american whaleman , I know by reput , but not person . I shall enumer them by their fore - castl appel ; for possibl such a list may be valuabl to futur investig , who may complet what I have here but begun . If ani of the follow whale , shall hereaft be caught and mark , then he can readili be incorpor into thi system , accord to hi folio , octavo , or duodecimo magnitud : -- the bottl - nose whale ; the junk whale ; the pud - head whale ; the cape whale ; the lead whale ; the cannon whale ; the scragg whale ; the copper whale ; the eleph whale ; the iceberg whale ; the quog whale ; the blue whale ; etc . from iceland , dutch , and old english author , there might be quot other list of uncertain whale , bless with all manner of uncouth name . but I omit them as altogeth obsolet ; and can hardli help suspect them for mere sound , full of leviathan , but signifi noth . final : It wa state at the outset , that thi system would not be here , and at onc , perfect . you can not but plainli see that I have kept my word . but I now leav my cetolog system stand thu unfinish , even as the great cathedr of cologn wa left , with the crane still stand upon the top of the uncomplet tower . for small erect may be finish by their first architect ; grand one , true one , ever leav the copeston to poster . god keep me from ever complet anyth . thi whole book is but a draught -- nay , but the draught of a draught . Oh , time , strength , cash , and patienc ! chapter 33 the specksynd . concern the offic of the whale - craft , thi seem as good a place as ani to set down a littl domest peculiar on ship - board , aris from the exist of the harpoon class of offic , a class unknown of cours in ani other marin than the whale - fleet . the larg import attach to the harpoon ' s vocat is evinc by the fact , that origin in the old dutch fisheri , two centuri and more ago , the command of a whale ship wa not wholli lodg in the person now call the captain , but wa divid between him and an offic call the specksynd . liter thi word mean fat - cutter ; usag , howev , in time made it equival to chief harpoon . In those day , the captain ' s author wa restrict to the navig and gener manag of the vessel ; while over the whale - hunt depart and all it concern , the specksynd or chief harpoon reign suprem . In the british greenland fisheri , under the corrupt titl of specksion , thi old dutch offici is still retain , but hi former digniti is sadli abridg . At present he rank simpli as senior harpoon ; and as such , is but one of the captain ' s more inferior subaltern . nevertheless , as upon the good conduct of the harpoon the success of a whale voyag larg depend , and sinc in the american fisheri he is not onli an import offic in the boat , but under certain circumst ( night watch on a whale ground ) the command of the ship ' s deck is also hi ; therefor the grand polit maxim of the sea demand , that he should nomin live apart from the men befor the mast , and be in some way distinguish as their profession superior ; though alway , by them , familiarli regard as their social equal . now , the grand distinct drawn between offic and man at sea , is thi -- the first live aft , the last forward . henc , in whale - ship and merchantmen alik , the mate have their quarter with the captain ; and so , too , in most of the american whaler the harpoon are lodg in the after part of the ship . that is to say , they take their meal in the captain ' s cabin , and sleep in a place indirectli commun with it . though the long period of a southern whale voyag ( by far the longest of all voyag now or ever made by man ) , the peculiar peril of it , and the commun of interest prevail among a compani , all of whom , high or low , depend for their profit , not upon fix wage , but upon their common luck , togeth with their common vigil , intrepid , and hard work ; though all these thing do in some case tend to beget a less rigor disciplin than in merchantmen gener ; yet , never mind how much like an old mesopotamian famili these whalemen may , in some primit instanc , live togeth ; for all that , the punctili extern , at least , of the quarter - deck are seldom materi relax , and in no instanc done away . inde , mani are the nantucket ship in which you will see the skipper parad hi quarter - deck with an elat grandeur not surpass in ani militari navi ; nay , extort almost as much outward homag as if he wore the imperi purpl , and not the shabbiest of pilot - cloth . and though of all men the moodi captain of the pequod wa the least given to that sort of shallowest assumpt ; and though the onli homag he ever exact , wa implicit , instantan obedi ; though he requir no man to remov the shoe from hi feet ere step upon the quarter - deck ; and though there were time when , owe to peculiar circumst connect with event hereaft to be detail , he address them in unusu term , whether of condescens or IN terrorem , or otherwis ; yet even captain ahab wa by no mean unobserv of the paramount form and usag of the sea . nor , perhap , will it fail to be eventu perceiv , that behind those form and usag , as it were , he sometim mask himself ; incident make use of them for other and more privat end than they were legitim intend to subserv . that certain sultan of hi brain , which had otherwis in a good degre remain unmanifest ; through those form that same sultan becam incarn in an irresist dictatorship . for be a man ' s intellectu superior what it will , it can never assum the practic , avail supremaci over other men , without the aid of some sort of extern art and entrench , alway , in themselv , more or less paltri and base . thi it is , that for ever keep god ' s true princ of the empir from the world ' s hust ; and leav the highest honour that thi air can give , to those men who becom famou more through their infinit inferior to the choic hidden hand of the divin inert , than through their undoubt superior over the dead level of the mass . such larg virtu lurk in these small thing when extrem polit superstit invest them , that in some royal instanc even to idiot imbecil they have impart potenc . but when , as in the case of nichola the czar , the ring crown of geograph empir encircl an imperi brain ; then , the plebeian herd crouch abas befor the tremend central . nor , will the tragic dramatist who would depict mortal indomit in it fullest sweep and direct swing , ever forget a hint , incident so import in hi art , as the one now allud to . but ahab , my captain , still move befor me in all hi nantucket grim and shaggi ; and in thi episod touch emperor and king , I must not conceal that I have onli to do with a poor old whale - hunter like him ; and , therefor , all outward majest trap and hous are deni me . Oh , ahab ! what shall be grand in thee , it must need be pluck at from the sky , and dive for in the deep , and featur in the unbodi air ! chapter 34 the cabin - tabl . It is noon ; and dough - boy , the steward , thrust hi pale loaf - of - bread face from the cabin - scuttl , announc dinner to hi lord and master ; who , sit in the lee quarter - boat , ha just been take an observ of the sun ; and is now mute reckon the latitud on the smooth , medallion - shape tablet , reserv for that daili purpos on the upper part of hi ivori leg . from hi complet inattent to the tide , you would think that moodi ahab had not heard hi menial . but present , catch hold of the mizen shroud , he swing himself to the deck , and in an even , unexhilar voic , say , `` dinner , Mr . starbuck , '' disappear into the cabin . when the last echo of hi sultan ' s step ha die away , and starbuck , the first emir , ha everi reason to suppos that he is seat , then starbuck rous from hi quietud , take a few turn along the plank , and , after a grave peep into the binnacl , say , with some touch of pleasant , `` dinner , Mr . stubb , '' and descend the scuttl . the second emir loung about the rig awhil , and then slightli shake the main brace , to see whether it will be all right with that import rope , he likewis take up the old burden , and with a rapid `` dinner , Mr . flask , '' follow after hi predecessor . but the third emir , now see himself all alon on the quarter - deck , seem to feel reliev from some curiou restraint ; for , tip all sort of know wink in all sort of direct , and kick off hi shoe , he strike into a sharp but noiseless squall of a hornpip right over the grand turk ' s head ; and then , by a dexter sleight , pitch hi cap up into the mizentop for a shelf , he goe down rollick so far at least as he remain visibl from the deck , revers all other process , by bring up the rear with music . but ere step into the cabin doorway below , he paus , ship a new face altogeth , and , then , independ , hilari littl flask enter king ahab ' s presenc , in the charact of abjectu , or the slave . It is not the least among the strang thing bred by the intens artifici of sea - usag , that while in the open air of the deck some offic will , upon provoc , bear themselv boldli and defyingli enough toward their command ; yet , ten to one , let those veri offic the next moment go down to their customari dinner in that same command ' s cabin , and straightway their inoffens , not to say deprecatori and humbl air toward him , as he sit at the head of the tabl ; thi is marvel , sometim most comic . wherefor thi differ ? A problem ? perhap not . To have been belshazzar , king of babylon ; and to have been belshazzar , not haughtili but courteous , therein certainli must have been some touch of mundan grandeur . but he who in the rightli regal and intellig spirit presid over hi own privat dinner - tabl of invit guest , that man ' s unchalleng power and dominion of individu influenc for the time ; that man ' s royalti of state transcend belshazzar ' s , for belshazzar wa not the greatest . who ha but onc dine hi friend , ha tast what it is to be caesar . It is a witcheri of social czarship which there is no withstand . now , if to thi consider you superadd the offici supremaci of a ship - master , then , by infer , you will deriv the caus of that peculiar of sea - life just mention . over hi ivori - inlaid tabl , ahab presid like a mute , mane sea - lion on the white coral beach , surround by hi warlik but still deferenti cub . In hi own proper turn , each offic wait to be serv . they were as littl children befor ahab ; and yet , in ahab , there seem not to lurk the smallest social arrog . with one mind , their intent eye all fasten upon the old man ' s knife , as he carv the chief dish befor him . I do not suppos that for the world they would have profan that moment with the slightest observ , even upon so neutral a topic as the weather . No ! and when reach out hi knife and fork , between which the slice of beef wa lock , ahab therebi motion starbuck ' s plate toward him , the mate receiv hi meat as though receiv alm ; and cut it tenderli ; and a littl start if , perchanc , the knife graze against the plate ; and chew it noiselessli ; and swallow it , not without circumspect . for , like the coron banquet at frankfort , where the german emperor profoundli dine with the seven imperi elector , so these cabin meal were somehow solemn meal , eaten in aw silenc ; and yet at tabl old ahab forbad not convers ; onli he himself wa dumb . what a relief it wa to choke stubb , when a rat made a sudden racket in the hold below . and poor littl flask , he wa the youngest son , and littl boy of thi weari famili parti . hi were the shinbon of the salin beef ; hi would have been the drumstick . for flask to have presum to help himself , thi must have seem to him tantamount to larceni in the first degre . had he help himself at that tabl , doubtless , never more would he have been abl to hold hi head up in thi honest world ; nevertheless , strang to say , ahab never forbad him . and had flask help himself , the chanc were ahab had never so much as notic it . least of all , did flask presum to help himself to butter . whether he thought the owner of the ship deni it to him , on account of it clot hi clear , sunni complexion ; or whether he deem that , on so long a voyag in such marketless water , butter wa at a premium , and therefor wa not for him , a subaltern ; howev it wa , flask , ala ! wa a butterless man ! anoth thing . flask wa the last person down at the dinner , and flask is the first man up . consid ! for herebi flask ' s dinner wa badli jam in point of time . starbuck and stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privileg of loung in the rear . If stubb even , who is but a peg higher than flask , happen to have but a small appetit , and soon show symptom of conclud hi repast , then flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouth that day ; for it is against holi usag for stubb to preced flask to the deck . therefor it wa that flask onc admit in privat , that ever sinc he had arisen to the digniti of an offic , from that moment he had never known what it wa to be otherwis than hungri , more or less . for what he ate did not so much reliev hi hunger , as keep it immort in him . peac and satisfact , thought flask , have for ever depart from my stomach . I am an offic ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashion beef in the forecastl , as I use to when I wa befor the mast . there ' s the fruit of promot now ; there ' s the vaniti of glori : there ' s the insan of life ! besid , if it were so that ani mere sailor of the pequod had a grudg against flask in flask ' s offici capac , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ampl vengeanc , wa to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at flask through the cabin sky - light , sit silli and dumfound befor aw ahab . now , ahab and hi three mate form what may be call the first tabl in the pequod ' s cabin . after their departur , take place in invert order to their arriv , the canva cloth wa clear , or rather wa restor to some hurri order by the pallid steward . and then the three harpoon were bidden to the feast , they be it residuari legate . they made a sort of temporari servant ' hall of the high and mighti cabin . In strang contrast to the hardli toler constraint and nameless invis domin of the captain ' s tabl , wa the entir care - free licens and eas , the almost frantic democraci of those inferior fellow the harpoon . while their master , the mate , seem afraid of the sound of the hing of their own jaw , the harpoon chew their food with such a relish that there wa a report to it . they dine like lord ; they fill their belli like indian ship all day load with spice . such portent appetit had queequeg and tashtego , that to fill out the vacanc made by the previou repast , often the pale dough - boy wa fain to bring on a great baron of salt - junk , seemingli quarri out of the solid ox . and if he were not live about it , if he did not go with a nimbl hop - skip - and - jump , then tashtego had an ungentlemanli way of acceler him by dart a fork at hi back , harpoon - wise . and onc daggoo , seiz with a sudden humor , assist dough - boy ' s memori by snatch him up bodili , and thrust hi head into a great empti wooden trencher , while tashtego , knife in hand , began lay out the circl preliminari to scalp him . He wa natur a veri nervou , shudder sort of littl fellow , thi bread - face steward ; the progeni of a bankrupt baker and a hospit nurs . and what with the stand spectacl of the black terrif ahab , and the period tumultu visit of these three savag , dough - boy ' s whole life wa one continu lip - quiver . commonli , after see the harpoon furnish with all thing they demand , he would escap from their clutch into hi littl pantri adjoin , and fear peep out at them through the blind of it door , till all wa over . It wa a sight to see queequeg seat over against tashtego , oppos hi file teeth to the indian ' s : crosswis to them , daggoo seat on the floor , for a bench would have brought hi hears - plume head to the low carlin ; at everi motion of hi coloss limb , make the low cabin framework to shake , as when an african eleph goe passeng in a ship . but for all thi , the great negro wa wonder abstemi , not to say dainti . It seem hardli possibl that by such compar small mouth he could keep up the vital diffus through so broad , baroni , and superb a person . but , doubtless , thi nobl savag fed strong and drank deep of the abound element of air ; and through hi dilat nostril snuf in the sublim life of the world . not by beef or by bread , are giant made or nourish . but queequeg , he had a mortal , barbar smack of the lip in eat -- an ugli sound enough -- so much so , that the trembl dough - boy almost look to see whether ani mark of teeth lurk in hi own lean arm . and when he would hear tashtego sing out for him to produc himself , that hi bone might be pick , the simpl - wit steward all but shatter the crockeri hang round him in the pantri , by hi sudden fit of the palsi . nor did the whetston which the harpoon carri in their pocket , for their lanc and other weapon ; and with which whetston , at dinner , they would ostentati sharpen their knive ; that grate sound did not at all tend to tranquil poor dough - boy . how could he forget that in hi island day , queequeg , for one , must certainli have been guilti of some murder , convivi indiscret . ala ! dough - boy ! hard fare the white waiter who wait upon cannib . not a napkin should he carri on hi arm , but a buckler . In good time , though , to hi great delight , the three salt - sea warrior would rise and depart ; to hi credul , fabl - monger ear , all their martial bone jingl in them at everi step , like moorish scimetar in scabbard . but , though these barbarian dine in the cabin , and nomin live there ; still , be anyth but sedentari in their habit , they were scarc ever in it except at mealtim , and just befor sleep - time , when they pass through it to their own peculiar quarter . In thi one matter , ahab seem no except to most american whale captain , who , as a set , rather inclin to the opinion that by right the ship ' s cabin belong to them ; and that it is by courtesi alon that anybodi els is , at ani time , permit there . So that , in real truth , the mate and harpoon of the pequod might more properli be said to have live out of the cabin than in it . for when they did enter it , it wa someth as a street - door enter a hous ; turn inward for a moment , onli to be turn out the next ; and , as a perman thing , resid in the open air . nor did they lose much herebi ; in the cabin wa no companionship ; social , ahab wa inaccess . though nomin includ in the censu of christendom , he wa still an alien to it . He live in the world , as the last of the grisli bear live in settl missouri . and as when spring and summer had depart , that wild logan of the wood , buri himself in the hollow of a tree , live out the winter there , suck hi own paw ; so , in hi inclement , howl old age , ahab ' s soul , shut up in the cave trunk of hi bodi , there fed upon the sullen paw of it gloom ! chapter 35 the mast - head . It wa dure the more pleasant weather , that in due rotat with the other seamen my first mast - head came round . In most american whalemen the mast - head are man almost simultan with the vessel ' s leav her port ; even though she may have fifteen thousand mile , and more , to sail ere reach her proper cruis ground . and if , after a three , four , or five year ' voyag she is draw nigh home with anyth empti in her -- say , an empti vial even -- then , her mast - head are kept man to the last ; and not till her skysail - pole sail in among the spire of the port , doe she altogeth relinquish the hope of captur one whale more . now , as the busi of stand mast - head , ashor or afloat , is a veri ancient and interest one , let us in some measur expati here . I take it , that the earliest stander of mast - head were the old egyptian ; becaus , in all my research , I find none prior to them . for though their progenitor , the builder of babel , must doubtless , by their tower , have intend to rear the loftiest mast - head in all asia , or africa either ; yet ( ere the final truck wa put to it ) as that great stone mast of their may be said to have gone by the board , in the dread gale of god ' s wrath ; therefor , we can not give these babel builder prioriti over the egyptian . and that the egyptian were a nation of mast - head stander , is an assert base upon the gener belief among archaeologist , that the first pyramid were found for astronom purpos : a theori singularli support by the peculiar stair - like format of all four side of those edific ; wherebi , with prodigi long uplift of their leg , those old astronom were wont to mount to the apex , and sing out for new star ; even as the look - out of a modern ship sing out for a sail , or a whale just bear in sight . In saint stylit , the famou christian hermit of old time , who built him a lofti stone pillar in the desert and spent the whole latter portion of hi life on it summit , hoist hi food from the ground with a tackl ; in him we have a remark instanc of a dauntless stander - of - mast - head ; who wa not to be driven from hi place by fog or frost , rain , hail , or sleet ; but valiantli face everyth out to the last , liter die at hi post . Of modern stander - of - mast - head we have but a lifeless set ; mere stone , iron , and bronz men ; who , though well capabl of face out a stiff gale , are still entir incompet to the busi of sing out upon discov ani strang sight . there is napoleon ; who , upon the top of the column of vendom , stand with arm fold , some one hundr and fifti feet in the air ; careless , now , who rule the deck below ; whether loui philipp , loui blanc , or loui the devil . great washington , too , stand high aloft on hi tower main - mast in baltimor , and like one of hercul ' pillar , hi column mark that point of human grandeur beyond which few mortal will go . admir nelson , also , on a capstan of gun - metal , stand hi mast - head in trafalgar squar ; and ever when most obscur by that london smoke , token is yet given that a hidden hero is there ; for where there is smoke , must be fire . but neither great washington , nor napoleon , nor nelson , will answer a singl hail from below , howev madli invok to befriend by their counsel the distract deck upon which they gaze ; howev it may be surmis , that their spirit penetr through the thick haze of the futur , and descri what shoal and what rock must be shun . It may seem unwarrant to coupl in ani respect the mast - head stander of the land with those of the sea ; but that in truth it is not so , is plainli evinc by an item for which obe maci , the sole historian of nantucket , stand account . the worthi obe tell us , that in the earli time of the whale fisheri , ere ship were regularli launch in pursuit of the game , the peopl of that island erect lofti spar along the sea - coast , to which the look - out ascend by mean of nail cleat , someth as fowl go upstair in a hen - hous . A few year ago thi same plan wa adopt by the bay whalemen of new zealand , who , upon descri the game , gave notic to the readi - man boat nigh the beach . but thi custom ha now becom obsolet ; turn we then to the one proper mast - head , that of a whale - ship at sea . the three mast - head are kept man from sun - rise to sun - set ; the seamen take their regular turn ( as at the helm ) , and reliev each other everi two hour . In the seren weather of the tropic it is exceedingli pleasant the mast - head ; nay , to a dreami medit man it is delight . there you stand , a hundr feet abov the silent deck , stride along the deep , as if the mast were gigant stilt , while beneath you and between your leg , as it were , swim the hugest monster of the sea , even as ship onc sail between the boot of the famou colossu at old rhode . there you stand , lost in the infinit seri of the sea , with noth ruffl but the wave . the tranc ship indol roll ; the drowsi trade wind blow ; everyth resolv you into languor . for the most part , in thi tropic whale life , a sublim unev invest you ; you hear no news ; read no gazett ; extra with startl account of commonplac never delud you into unnecessari excit ; you hear of no domest afflict ; bankrupt secur ; fall of stock ; are never troubl with the thought of what you shall have for dinner -- for all your meal for three year and more are snugli stow in cask , and your bill of fare is immut . In one of those southern whalesmen , on a long three or four year ' voyag , as often happen , the sum of the variou hour you spend at the mast - head would amount to sever entir month . and it is much to be deplor that the place to which you devot so consider a portion of the whole term of your natur life , should be so sadli destitut of anyth approach to a cosi inhabit , or adapt to breed a comfort local of feel , such as pertain to a bed , a hammock , a hears , a sentri box , a pulpit , a coach , or ani other of those small and snug contriv in which men temporarili isol themselv . your most usual point of perch is the head of the t ' gallant - mast , where you stand upon two thin parallel stick ( almost peculiar to whalemen ) call the t ' gallant cross - tree . here , toss about by the sea , the beginn feel about as cosi as he would stand on a bull ' s horn . To be sure , in cold weather you may carri your hous aloft with you , in the shape of a watch - coat ; but properli speak the thickest watch - coat is no more of a hous than the unclad bodi ; for as the soul is glu insid of it fleshi tabernacl , and can not freeli move about in it , nor even move out of it , without run great risk of perish ( like an ignor pilgrim cross the snowi alp in winter ) ; so a watch - coat is not so much of a hous as it is a mere envelop , or addit skin encas you . you can not put a shelf or chest of drawer in your bodi , and no more can you make a conveni closet of your watch - coat . concern all thi , it is much to be deplor that the mast - head of a southern whale ship are unprovid with those enviabl littl tent or pulpit , call crow ' S - nest , in which the look - out of a greenland whaler are protect from the inclement weather of the frozen sea . In the firesid narr of captain sleet , entitl `` A voyag among the iceberg , in quest of the greenland whale , and incident for the re - discoveri of the lost iceland coloni of old greenland ; '' in thi admir volum , all stander of mast - head are furnish with a charmingli circumstanti account of the then recent invent crow ' S - nest of the glacier , which wa the name of captain sleet ' s good craft . He call it the sleet ' S crow ' S - nest , in honour of himself ; he be the origin inventor and patente , and free from all ridicul fals delicaci , and hold that if we call our own children after our own name ( we father be the origin inventor and patente ) , so likewis should we denomin after ourselv ani other apparatu we may beget . In shape , the sleet ' s crow ' s - nest is someth like a larg tierc or pipe ; it is open abov , howev , where it is furnish with a movabl side - screen to keep to windward of your head in a hard gale . be fix on the summit of the mast , you ascend into it through a littl trap - hatch in the bottom . On the after side , or side next the stern of the ship , is a comfort seat , with a locker underneath for umbrella , comfort , and coat . In front is a leather rack , in which to keep your speak trumpet , pipe , telescop , and other nautic conveni . when captain sleet in person stood hi mast - head in thi crow ' s - nest of hi , he tell us that he alway had a rifl with him ( also fix in the rack ) , togeth with a powder flask and shot , for the purpos of pop off the stray narwhal , or vagrant sea unicorn infest those water ; for you can not success shoot at them from the deck owe to the resist of the water , but to shoot down upon them is a veri differ thing . now , it wa plainli a labor of love for captain sleet to describ , as he doe , all the littl detail conveni of hi crow ' s - nest ; but though he so enlarg upon mani of these , and though he treat us to a veri scientif account of hi experi in thi crow ' s - nest , with a small compass he kept there for the purpos of counteract the error result from what is call the `` local attract `` of all binnacl magnet ; an error ascrib to the horizont vicin of the iron in the ship ' s plank , and in the glacier ' s case , perhap , to there have been so mani broken - down blacksmith among her crew ; I say , that though the captain is veri discreet and scientif here , yet , for all hi learn `` binnacl deviat , '' `` azimuth compass observ , '' and `` approxim error , '' he know veri well , captain sleet , that he wa not so much immers in those profound magnet medit , as to fail be attract occasion toward that well replenish littl case - bottl , so nice tuck in on one side of hi crow ' s nest , within easi reach of hi hand . though , upon the whole , I greatli admir and even love the brave , the honest , and learn captain ; yet I take it veri ill of him that he should so utterli ignor that case - bottl , see what a faith friend and comfort it must have been , while with mitten finger and hood head he wa studi the mathemat aloft there in that bird ' s nest within three or four perch of the pole . but if we southern whale - fisher are not so snugli hous aloft as captain sleet and hi greenlandmen were ; yet that disadvantag is greatli counter - balanc by the wide contrast seren of those seduct sea in which we south fisher mostli float . for one , I use to loung up the rig veri leisur , rest in the top to have a chat with queequeg , or ani one els off duti whom I might find there ; then ascend a littl way further , and throw a lazi leg over the top - sail yard , take a preliminari view of the wateri pastur , and so at last mount to my ultim destin . let me make a clean breast of it here , and frankli admit that I kept but sorri guard . with the problem of the univers revolv in me , how could I -- be left complet to myself at such a thought - engend altitud -- how could I but lightli hold my oblig to observ all whale - ship ' stand order , `` keep your weather eye open , and sing out everi time . '' and let me in thi place movingli admonish you , ye ship - owner of nantucket ! bewar of enlist in your vigil fisheri ani lad with lean brow and hollow eye ; given to unseason medit ; and who offer to ship with the phaedon instead of bowditch in hi head . bewar of such an one , I say ; your whale must be seen befor they can be kill ; and thi sunken - eye young platonist will tow you ten wake round the world , and never make you one pint of sperm the richer . nor are these monit at all unneed . for nowaday , the whale - fisheri furnish an asylum for mani romant , melancholi , and absent - mind young men , disgust with the cark care of earth , and seek sentiment in tar and blubber . child harold not unfrequ perch himself upon the mast - head of some luckless disappoint whale - ship , and in moodi phrase ejacul : -- `` roll on , thou deep and dark blue ocean , roll ! ten thousand blubber - hunter sweep over thee in vain . '' veri often do the captain of such ship take those absent - mind young philosoph to task , upbraid them with not feel suffici `` interest `` in the voyag ; half - hint that they are so hopelessli lost to all honour ambit , as that in their secret soul they would rather not see whale than otherwis . but all in vain ; those young platonist have a notion that their vision is imperfect ; they are short - sight ; what use , then , to strain the visual nerv ? they have left their opera - glass at home . `` whi , thou monkey , '' said a harpoon to one of these lad , `` we ' ve been cruis now hard upon three year , and thou hast not rais a whale yet . whale are scarc as hen ' s teeth whenev thou art up here . '' perhap they were ; or perhap there might have been shoal of them in the far horizon ; but lull into such an opium - like listless of vacant , unconsci reveri is thi absent - mind youth by the blend cadenc of wave with thought , that at last he lose hi ident ; take the mystic ocean at hi feet for the visibl imag of that deep , blue , bottomless soul , pervad mankind and natur ; and everi strang , half - seen , glide , beauti thing that elud him ; everi dimli - discov , upris fin of some undiscern form , seem to him the embodi of those elus thought that onli peopl the soul by continu flit through it . In thi enchant mood , thi spirit ebb away to whenc it came ; becom diffus through time and space ; like crammer ' s sprinkl pantheist ash , form at last a part of everi shore the round globe over . there is no life in thee , now , except that rock life impart by a gentli roll ship ; by her , borrow from the sea ; by the sea , from the inscrut tide of god . but while thi sleep , thi dream is on ye , move your foot or hand an inch ; slip your hold at all ; and your ident come back in horror . over descartian vortic you hover . and perhap , at mid - day , in the fairest weather , with one half - throttl shriek you drop through that transpar air into the summer sea , no more to rise for ever . heed it well , ye pantheist ! chapter 36 the quarter - deck . ( enter ahab : then , all ) It wa not a great while after the affair of the pipe , that one morn shortli after breakfast , ahab , as wa hi wont , ascend the cabin - gangway to the deck . there most sea - captain usual walk at that hour , as countri gentlemen , after the same meal , take a few turn in the garden . soon hi steadi , ivori stride wa heard , as to and fro he pace hi old round , upon plank so familiar to hi tread , that they were all over dent , like geolog stone , with the peculiar mark of hi walk . did you fixedli gaze , too , upon that rib and dent brow ; there also , you would see still stranger foot - print -- the foot - print of hi one unsleep , ever - pace thought . but on the occas in question , those dent look deeper , even as hi nervou step that morn left a deeper mark . and , so full of hi thought wa ahab , that at everi uniform turn that he made , now at the main - mast and now at the binnacl , you could almost see that thought turn in him as he turn , and pace in him as he pace ; so complet possess him , inde , that it all but seem the inward mould of everi outer movement . `` D ' ye mark him , flask ? '' whisper stubb ; `` the chick that ' s in him peck the shell . ' twill soon be out . '' the hour wore on ; -- ahab now shut up within hi cabin ; anon , pace the deck , with the same intens bigotri of purpos in hi aspect . It drew near the close of day . suddenli he came to a halt by the bulwark , and insert hi bone leg into the auger - hole there , and with one hand grasp a shroud , he order starbuck to send everybodi aft . `` sir ! '' said the mate , astonish at an order seldom or never given on ship - board except in some extraordinari case . `` send everybodi aft , '' repeat ahab . `` mast - head , there ! come down ! '' when the entir ship ' s compani were assembl , and with curiou and not wholli unapprehens face , were eye him , for he look not unlik the weather horizon when a storm is come up , ahab , after rapidli glanc over the bulwark , and then dart hi eye among the crew , start from hi standpoint ; and as though not a soul were nigh him resum hi heavi turn upon the deck . with bent head and half - slouch hat he continu to pace , unmind of the wonder whisper among the men ; till stubb cautious whisper to flask , that ahab must have summon them there for the purpos of wit a pedestrian feat . but thi did not last long . vehement paus , he cri : -- `` what do ye do when ye see a whale , men ? '' `` sing out for him ! '' wa the impuls rejoind from a score of club voic . `` good ! '' cri ahab , with a wild approv in hi tone ; observ the hearti anim into which hi unexpect question had so magnet thrown them . `` and what do ye next , men ? '' `` lower away , and after him ! '' `` and what tune is it ye pull to , men ? '' `` A dead whale or a stove boat ! '' more and more strang and fierc glad and approv , grew the counten of the old man at everi shout ; while the marin began to gaze curious at each other , as if marvel how it wa that they themselv becam so excit at such seemingli purposeless question . but , they were all eager again , as ahab , now half - revolv in hi pivot - hole , with one hand reach high up a shroud , and tightli , almost convuls grasp it , address them thu : -- `` all ye mast - header have befor now heard me give order about a white whale . look ye ! d ' ye see thi spanish ounc of gold ? '' -- hold up a broad bright coin to the sun -- '' it is a sixteen dollar piec , men . D ' ye see it ? Mr . starbuck , hand me yon top - maul . '' while the mate wa get the hammer , ahab , without speak , wa slowli rub the gold piec against the skirt of hi jacket , as if to heighten it lustr , and without use ani word wa meanwhil lowli hum to himself , produc a sound so strang muffl and inarticul that it seem the mechan hum of the wheel of hi vital in him . receiv the top - maul from starbuck , he advanc toward the main - mast with the hammer uplift in one hand , exhibit the gold with the other , and with a high rais voic exclaim : `` whosoev of ye rais me a white - head whale with a wrinkl brow and a crook jaw ; whosoev of ye rais me that white - head whale , with three hole punctur in hi starboard fluke -- look ye , whosoev of ye rais me that same white whale , he shall have thi gold ounc , my boy ! '' `` huzza ! huzza ! '' cri the seamen , as with swing tarpaulin they hail the act of nail the gold to the mast . `` It ' s a white whale , I say , '' resum ahab , as he threw down the topmaul : `` a white whale . skin your eye for him , men ; look sharp for white water ; if ye see but a bubbl , sing out . '' all thi while tashtego , daggoo , and queequeg had look on with even more intens interest and surpris than the rest , and at the mention of the wrinkl brow and crook jaw they had start as if each wa separ touch by some specif recollect . `` captain ahab , '' said tashtego , `` that white whale must be the same that some call mobi dick . '' `` mobi dick ? '' shout ahab . `` Do ye know the white whale then , tash ? '' `` doe he fan - tail a littl curiou , sir , befor he goe down ? '' said the gay - header deliber . `` and ha he a curiou spout , too , '' said daggoo , `` veri bushi , even for a parmacetti , and mighti quick , captain ahab ? '' `` and he have one , two , three -- oh ! good mani iron in him hide , too , captain , '' cri queequeg disjointedli , `` all twisk - tee be - twisk , like him -- him -- '' falter hard for a word , and screw hi hand round and round as though uncork a bottl -- '' like him -- him -- '' `` corkscrew ! '' cri ahab , `` aye , queequeg , the harpoon lie all twist and wrench in him ; aye , daggoo , hi spout is a big one , like a whole shock of wheat , and white as a pile of our nantucket wool after the great annual sheep - shear ; aye , tashtego , and he fan - tail like a split jib in a squall . death and devil ! men , it is mobi dick ye have seen -- mobi dick -- mobi dick ! '' `` captain ahab , '' said starbuck , who , with stubb and flask , had thu far been eye hi superior with increas surpris , but at last seem struck with a thought which somewhat explain all the wonder . `` captain ahab , I have heard of mobi dick -- but it wa not mobi dick that took off thi leg ? '' `` who told thee that ? '' cri ahab ; then paus , `` aye , starbuck ; aye , my hearti all round ; it wa mobi dick that dismast me ; mobi dick that brought me to thi dead stump I stand on now . aye , aye , '' he shout with a terrif , loud , anim sob , like that of a heart - stricken moos ; `` aye , aye ! it wa that accurs white whale that raze me ; made a poor peg lubber of me for ever and a day ! '' then toss both arm , with measureless imprec he shout out : `` aye , aye ! and I ' ll chase him round good hope , and round the horn , and round the norway maelstrom , and round perdit ' s flame befor I give him up . and thi is what ye have ship for , men ! to chase that white whale on both side of land , and over all side of earth , till he spout black blood and roll fin out . what say ye , men , will ye splice hand on it , now ? I think ye do look brave . '' `` aye , aye ! '' shout the harpoon and seamen , run closer to the excit old man : `` A sharp eye for the white whale ; a sharp lanc for mobi dick ! '' `` god bless ye , '' he seem to half sob and half shout . `` god bless ye , men . steward ! go draw the great measur of grog . but what ' s thi long face about , Mr . starbuck ; wilt thou not chase the white whale ? art not game for mobi dick ? '' `` I am game for hi crook jaw , and for the jaw of death too , captain ahab , if it fairli come in the way of the busi we follow ; but I came here to hunt whale , not my command ' s vengeanc . how mani barrel will thi vengeanc yield thee even if thou gettest it , captain ahab ? it will not fetch thee much in our nantucket market . '' `` nantucket market ! hoot ! but come closer , starbuck ; thou requirest a littl lower layer . If money ' s to be the measur , man , and the account have comput their great count - hous the globe , by girdl it with guinea , one to everi three part of an inch ; then , let me tell thee , that my vengeanc will fetch a great premium here ! '' `` He smite hi chest , '' whisper stubb , `` what ' s that for ? methink it ring most vast , but hollow . '' `` vengeanc on a dumb brute ! '' cri starbuck , `` that simpli smote thee from blindest instinct ! mad ! To be enrag with a dumb thing , captain ahab , seem blasphem . '' `` hark ye yet again -- the littl lower layer . all visibl object , man , are but as pasteboard mask . but in each event -- in the live act , the undoubt deed -- there , some unknown but still reason thing put forth the mould of it featur from behind the unreason mask . If man will strike , strike through the mask ! how can the prison reach outsid except by thrust through the wall ? To me , the white whale is that wall , shove near to me . sometim I think there ' s naught beyond . but ' ti enough . He task me ; he heap me ; I see in him outrag strength , with an inscrut malic sinew it . that inscrut thing is chiefli what I hate ; and be the white whale agent , or be the white whale princip , I will wreak that hate upon him . talk not to me of blasphemi , man ; I ' d strike the sun if it insult me . for could the sun do that , then could I do the other ; sinc there is ever a sort of fair play herein , jealousi presid over all creation . but not my master , man , is even that fair play . who ' s over me ? truth hath no confin . take off thine eye ! more intoler than fiend ' glare is a doltish stare ! So , so ; thou reddenest and palest ; my heat ha melt thee to anger - glow . but look ye , starbuck , what is said in heat , that thing unsay itself . there are men from whom warm word are small indign . I meant not to incens thee . let it go . look ! see yonder turkish cheek of spot tawn -- live , breath pictur paint by the sun . the pagan leopard -- the unreck and unworship thing , that live ; and seek , and give no reason for the torrid life they feel ! the crew , man , the crew ! are they not one and all with ahab , in thi matter of the whale ? see stubb ! he laugh ! see yonder chilian ! he snort to think of it . stand up amid the gener hurrican , thi one tost sapl can not , starbuck ! and what is it ? reckon it . ' ti but to help strike a fin ; no wondrou feat for starbuck . what is it more ? from thi one poor hunt , then , the best lanc out of all nantucket , sure he will not hang back , when everi foremast - hand ha clutch a whetston ? Ah ! constrain seiz thee ; I see ! the billow lift thee ! speak , but speak ! -- aye , aye ! thi silenc , then , that voic thee . ( asid ) someth shot from my dilat nostril , he ha inhal it in hi lung . starbuck now is mine ; can not oppos me now , without rebellion . '' `` god keep me ! -- keep us all ! '' murmur starbuck , lowli . but in hi joy at the enchant , tacit acquiesc of the mate , ahab did not hear hi forebod invoc ; nor yet the low laugh from the hold ; nor yet the presag vibrat of the wind in the cordag ; nor yet the hollow flap of the sail against the mast , as for a moment their heart sank in . for again starbuck ' s downcast eye light up with the stubborn of life ; the subterranean laugh die away ; the wind blew on ; the sail fill out ; the ship heav and roll as befor . Ah , ye admonit and warn ! whi stay ye not when ye come ? but rather are ye predict than warn , ye shadow ! yet not so much predict from without , as verif of the forego thing within . for with littl extern to constrain us , the innermost necess in our be , these still drive us on . `` the measur ! the measur ! '' cri ahab . receiv the brim pewter , and turn to the harpoon , he order them to produc their weapon . then rang them befor him near the capstan , with their harpoon in their hand , while hi three mate stood at hi side with their lanc , and the rest of the ship ' s compani form a circl round the group ; he stood for an instant searchingli eye everi man of hi crew . but those wild eye met hi , as the bloodshot eye of the prairi wolv meet the eye of their leader , ere he rush on at their head in the trail of the bison ; but , ala ! onli to fall into the hidden snare of the indian . `` drink and pass ! '' he cri , hand the heavi charg flagon to the nearest seaman . `` the crew alon now drink . round with it , round ! short draught -- long swallow , men ; ' ti hot as satan ' s hoof . So , so ; it goe round excel . It spiral in ye ; fork out at the serpent - snap eye . well done ; almost drain . that way it went , thi way it come . hand it me -- here ' s a hollow ! men , ye seem the year ; so brim life is gulp and gone . steward , refil ! `` attend now , my brave . I have muster ye all round thi capstan ; and ye mate , flank me with your lanc ; and ye harpoon , stand there with your iron ; and ye , stout marin , ring me in , that I may in some sort reviv a nobl custom of my fisherman father befor me . O men , you will yet see that -- Ha ! boy , come back ? bad penni come not sooner . hand it me . whi , now , thi pewter had run brim again , were ' t not thou St . vitu ' imp -- away , thou agu ! `` advanc , ye mate ! cross your lanc full befor me . well done ! let me touch the axi . '' So say , with extend arm , he grasp the three level , radiat lanc at their cross centr ; while so do , suddenli and nervous twitch them ; meanwhil , glanc intent from starbuck to stubb ; from stubb to flask . It seem as though , by some nameless , interior volit , he would fain have shock into them the same fieri emot accumul within the leyden jar of hi own magnet life . the three mate quail befor hi strong , sustain , and mystic aspect . stubb and flask look sideway from him ; the honest eye of starbuck fell downright . `` In vain ! '' cri ahab ; `` but , mayb , ' ti well . for did ye three but onc take the full - forc shock , then mine own electr thing , that had perhap expir from out me . perchanc , too , it would have drop ye dead . perchanc ye need it not . down lanc ! and now , ye mate , I do appoint ye three cupbear to my three pagan kinsmen there -- yon three most honour gentlemen and noblemen , my valiant harpoon . disdain the task ? what , when the great pope wash the feet of beggar , use hi tiara for ewer ? Oh , my sweet cardin ! your own condescens , that shall bend ye to it . I do not order ye ; ye will it . cut your seiz and draw the pole , ye harpoon ! '' silent obey the order , the three harpoon now stood with the detach iron part of their harpoon , some three feet long , held , barb up , befor him . `` stab me not with that keen steel ! cant them ; cant them over ! know ye not the goblet end ? turn up the socket ! So , so ; now , ye cup - bearer , advanc . the iron ! take them ; hold them while I fill ! '' forthwith , slowli go from one offic to the other , he brim the harpoon socket with the fieri water from the pewter . `` now , three to three , ye stand . commend the murder chalic ! bestow them , ye who are now made parti to thi indissolubl leagu . Ha ! starbuck ! but the deed is done ! yon ratifi sun now wait to sit upon it . drink , ye harpoon ! drink and swear , ye men that man the death whaleboat ' s bow -- death to mobi dick ! god hunt us all , if we do not hunt mobi dick to hi death ! '' the long , barb steel goblet were lift ; and to cri and maledict against the white whale , the spirit were simultan quaf down with a hiss . starbuck pale , and turn , and shiver . onc more , and final , the replenish pewter went the round among the frantic crew ; when , wave hi free hand to them , they all dispers ; and ahab retir within hi cabin . chapter 37 sunset . the cabin ; BY the stern window ; ahab sit alon , and gaze out . I leav a white and turbid wake ; pale water , paler cheek , where ' er I sail . the enviou billow sidelong swell to whelm my track ; let them ; but first I pass . yonder , by ever - brim goblet ' s rim , the warm wave blush like wine . the gold brow plumb the blue . the diver sun -- slow dive from noon -- goe down ; my soul mount up ! she weari with her endless hill . Is , then , the crown too heavi that I wear ? thi iron crown of lombardi . yet is it bright with mani a gem ; I the wearer , see not it far flash ; but darkli feel that I wear that , that dazzlingli confound . ' ti iron -- that I know -- not gold . ' ti split , too -- that I feel ; the jag edg gall me so , my brain seem to beat against the solid metal ; aye , steel skull , mine ; the sort that need no helmet in the most brain - batter fight ! dri heat upon my brow ? Oh ! time wa , when as the sunris nobli spur me , so the sunset sooth . No more . thi love light , it light not me ; all loveli is anguish to me , sinc I can ne ' er enjoy . gift with the high percept , I lack the low , enjoy power ; damn , most subtli and most malignantli ! damn in the midst of paradis ! good night -- good night ! ( wave hi hand , HE move from the window . ) ' twa not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cog circl fit into all their variou wheel , and they revolv . Or , if you will , like so mani ant - hill of powder , they all stand befor me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire other , the match itself must need be wast ! what I ' ve dare , I ' ve will ; and what I ' ve will , I ' ll do ! they think me mad -- starbuck doe ; but I ' m demoniac , I am mad madden ! that wild mad that ' s onli calm to comprehend itself ! the propheci wa that I should be dismemb ; and -- aye ! I lost thi leg . I now prophesi that I will dismemb my dismember . now , then , be the prophet and the fulfil one . that ' s more than ye , ye great god , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - player , ye pugilist , ye deaf burk and blind bendigo ! I will not say as schoolboy do to bulli -- take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knock me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . come forth from behind your cotton bag ! I have no long gun to reach ye . come , ahab ' s compliment to ye ; come and see if ye can swerv me . swerv me ? ye can not swerv me , els ye swerv yourselv ! man ha ye there . swerv me ? the path to my fix purpos is laid with iron rail , whereon my soul is groov to run . over unsound gorg , through the rifl heart of mountain , under torrent ' bed , unerringli I rush ! naught ' s an obstacl , naught ' s an angl to the iron way ! chapter 38 dusk . BY the mainmast ; starbuck lean against IT . My soul is more than match ; she ' s overman ; and by a madman ! insuffer sting , that saniti should ground arm on such a field ! but he drill deep down , and blast all my reason out of me ! I think I see hi impiou end ; but feel that I must help him to it . will I , nill I , the ineff thing ha tie me to him ; tow me with a cabl I have no knife to cut . horribl old man ! who ' s over him , he cri ; -- aye , he would be a democrat to all abov ; look , how he lord it over all below ! Oh ! I plainli see my miser offic , -- to obey , rebel ; and wors yet , to hate with touch of piti ! for in hi eye I read some lurid woe would shrivel me up , had I it . yet is there hope . time and tide flow wide . the hate whale ha the round wateri world to swim in , as the small gold - fish ha it glassi globe . hi heaven - insult purpos , god may wedg asid . I would up heart , were it not like lead . but my whole clock ' s run down ; my heart the all - control weight , I have no key to lift again . [ A burst OF revelri from the forecastl . ] Oh , god ! to sail with such a heathen crew that have small touch of human mother in them ! whelp somewher by the sharkish sea . the white whale is their demigorgon . hark ! the infern orgi ! that revelri is forward ! mark the unfalt silenc aft ! methink it pictur life . foremost through the sparkl sea shoot on the gay , embattl , banter bow , but onli to drag dark ahab after it , where he brood within hi sternward cabin , build over the dead water of the wake , and further on , hunt by it wolfish gurgl . the long howl thrill me through ! peac ! ye revel , and set the watch ! Oh , life ! ' ti in an hour like thi , with soul beat down and held to knowledg , -- as wild , untutor thing are forc to feed -- Oh , life ! ' ti now that I do feel the latent horror in thee ! but ' ti not me ! that horror ' s out of me ! and with the soft feel of the human in me , yet will I tri to fight ye , ye grim , phantom futur ! stand by me , hold me , bind me , O ye bless influenc ! chapter 39 first night watch . fore - top . ( stubb solu , and mend A brace . ) Ha ! ha ! ha ! ha ! hem ! clear my throat ! -- I ' ve been think over it ever sinc , and that ha , ha ' s the final consequ . whi so ? becaus a laugh ' s the wisest , easiest answer to all that ' s queer ; and come what will , one comfort ' s alway left -- that unfail comfort is , it ' s all predestin . I heard not all hi talk with starbuck ; but to my poor eye starbuck then look someth as I the other even felt . Be sure the old mogul ha fix him , too . I twig it , knew it ; had had the gift , might readili have prophesi it -- for when I clap my eye upon hi skull I saw it . well , stubb , wise stubb -- that ' s my titl -- well , stubb , what of it , stubb ? here ' s a carcas . I know not all that may be come , but be it what it will , I ' ll go to it laugh . such a waggish leer as lurk in all your horribl ! I feel funni . Fa , la ! lirra , skirra ! what ' s my juici littl pear at home do now ? cri it eye out ? -- give a parti to the last arriv harpoon , I dare say , gay as a frigat ' s pennant , and so am I -- fa , la ! lirra , skirra ! Oh -- We ' ll drink to - night with heart as light , To love , as gay and fleet As bubbl that swim , on the beaker ' s brim , and break on the lip while meet . A brave stave that -- who call ? Mr . starbuck ? aye , aye , sir -- ( asid ) he ' s my superior , he ha hi too , if I ' m not mistaken . -- aye , aye , sir , just through with thi job -- come . chapter 40 midnight , forecastl . harpoon and sailor . ( foresail rise and discov the watch stand , loung , lean , and ly IN variou attitud , all sing IN choru . ) farewel and adieu to you , spanish ladi ! farewel and adieu to you , ladi of spain ! our captain ' s command . -- 1st nantucket sailor . Oh , boy , don ' t be sentiment ; it ' s bad for the digest ! take a tonic , follow me ! ( sing , and all follow ) our captain stood upon the deck , A spi - glass in hi hand , A view of those gallant whale that blew at everi strand . Oh , your tub in your boat , my boy , and by your brace stand , and we ' ll have one of those fine whale , hand , boy , over hand ! So , be cheeri , my lad ! may your heart never fail ! while the bold harpoon is strike the whale ! mate ' S voic from the quarter - deck . eight bell there , forward ! 2nd nantucket sailor . avast the choru ! eight bell there ! d ' ye hear , bell - boy ? strike the bell eight , thou pip ! thou blackl ! and let me call the watch . I ' ve the sort of mouth for that -- the hogshead mouth . So , so , ( thrust hi head down the scuttl , ) star - bo - l - e - e - n - s , a - h - o - y ! eight bell there below ! tumbl up ! dutch sailor . grand snooz to - night , mati ; fat night for that . I mark thi in our old mogul ' s wine ; it ' s quit as deaden to some as fillip to other . We sing ; they sleep -- aye , lie down there , like ground - tier butt . At ' em again ! there , take thi copper - pump , and hail ' em through it . tell ' em to avast dream of their lass . tell ' em it ' s the resurrect ; they must kiss their last , and come to judgment . that ' s the way -- that ' S it ; thi throat ain ' t spoil with eat amsterdam butter . french sailor . hist , boy ! let ' s have a jig or two befor we ride to anchor in blanket bay . what say ye ? there come the other watch . stand by all leg ! pip ! littl pip ! hurrah with your tambourin ! pip . ( sulki and sleepi ) don ' t know where it is . french sailor . beat thi belli , then , and wag thi ear . jig it , men , I say ; merri ' s the word ; hurrah ! damn me , won ' t you danc ? form , now , indian - file , and gallop into the doubl - shuffl ? throw yourselv ! leg ! leg ! iceland sailor . I don ' t like your floor , mati ; it ' s too springi to my tast . I ' m use to ice - floor . I ' m sorri to throw cold water on the subject ; but excus me . maltes sailor . Me too ; where ' s your girl ? who but a fool would take hi left hand by hi right , and say to himself , how d ' ye do ? partner ! I must have partner ! sicilian sailor . aye ; girl and a green ! -- then I ' ll hop with ye ; yea , turn grasshopp ! long - island sailor . well , well , ye sulki , there ' s plenti more of us . hoe corn when you may , say I . all leg go to harvest soon . Ah ! here come the music ; now for it ! azor sailor . ( ascend , and pitch the tambourin UP the scuttl . ) here you are , pip ; and there ' s the windlass - bitt ; up you mount ! now , boy ! ( the half OF them danc TO the tambourin ; some GO below ; some sleep OR lie among the coil OF rig . oath A - plenti . ) azor sailor . ( danc ) Go it , pip ! bang it , bell - boy ! rig it , dig it , stig it , quig it , bell - boy ! make fire - fli ; break the jingler ! pip . jingler , you say ? -- there goe anoth , drop off ; I pound it so . china sailor . rattl thi teeth , then , and pound away ; make a pagoda of thyself . french sailor . merri - mad ! hold up thi hoop , pip , till I jump through it ! split jib ! tear yourselv ! tashtego . ( quietli smoke ) that ' s a white man ; he call that fun : humph ! I save my sweat . old manx sailor . I wonder whether those jolli lad bethink them of what they are danc over . I ' ll danc over your grave , I will -- that ' s the bitterest threat of your night - women , that beat head - wind round corner . O christ ! to think of the green navi and the green - skull crew ! well , well ; belik the whole world ' s a ball , as you scholar have it ; and so ' ti right to make one ballroom of it . danc on , lad , you ' re young ; I wa onc . 3D nantucket sailor . spell oh ! -- whew ! thi is wors than pull after whale in a calm -- give us a whiff , tash . ( they ceas danc , and gather IN cluster . meantim the ski darken -- the wind rise . ) lascar sailor . By brahma ! boy , it ' ll be dous sail soon . the sky - born , high - tide gang turn to wind ! thou showest thi black brow , seeva ! maltes sailor . ( reclin and shake hi cap . ) It ' s the wave -- the snow ' s cap turn to jig it now . they ' ll shake their tassel soon . now would all the wave were women , then I ' d go drown , and chasse with them evermor ! there ' s naught so sweet on earth -- heaven may not match it ! -- as those swift glanc of warm , wild bosom in the danc , when the over - arbor arm hide such ripe , burst grape . sicilian sailor . ( reclin . ) tell me not of it ! hark ye , lad -- fleet interlac of the limb -- lith sway -- coy -- flutter ! lip ! heart ! hip ! all graze : unceas touch and go ! not tast , observ ye , els come satieti . Eh , pagan ? ( nudg . ) tahitan sailor . ( reclin ON A mat . ) hail , holi naked of our danc girl ! -- the heeva - heeva ! Ah ! low veil , high palm tahiti ! I still rest me on thi mat , but the soft soil ha slid ! I saw thee woven in the wood , my mat ! green the first day I brought ye thenc ; now worn and wilt quit . Ah me ! -- not thou nor I can bear the chang ! how then , if so be transplant to yon sky ? hear I the roar stream from pirohite ' s peak of spear , when they leap down the crag and drown the villag ? -- the blast ! the blast ! Up , spine , and meet it ! ( leap TO hi feet . ) portugues sailor . how the sea roll swash ' gainst the side ! stand by for reef , hearti ! the wind are just cross sword , pell - mell they ' ll go lung present . danish sailor . crack , crack , old ship ! so long as thou crackest , thou holdest ! well done ! the mate there hold ye to it stiffli . He ' s no more afraid than the isl fort at cattegat , put there to fight the baltic with storm - lash gun , on which the sea - salt cake ! 4th nantucket sailor . He ha hi order , mind ye that . I heard old ahab tell him he must alway kill a squall , someth as they burst a waterspout with a pistol -- fire your ship right into it ! english sailor . blood ! but that old man ' s a grand old cove ! We are the lad to hunt him up hi whale ! all . aye ! aye ! old manx sailor . how the three pine shake ! pine are the hardest sort of tree to live when shift to ani other soil , and here there ' s none but the crew ' s curs clay . steadi , helmsman ! steadi . thi is the sort of weather when brave heart snap ashor , and keel hull split at sea . our captain ha hi birthmark ; look yonder , boy , there ' s anoth in the sky -- lurid - like , ye see , all els pitch black . daggoo . what of that ? who ' s afraid of black ' s afraid of me ! I ' m quarri out of it ! spanish sailor . ( asid . ) He want to bulli , ah ! -- the old grudg make me touchi ( advanc . ) aye , harpoon , thi race is the undeni dark side of mankind -- devilish dark at that . No offenc . daggoo ( grimli ) . none . ST . jago ' S sailor . that spaniard ' s mad or drunk . but that can ' t be , or els in hi one case our old mogul ' s fire - water are somewhat long in work . 5th nantucket sailor . what ' s that I saw -- lightn ? ye . spanish sailor . No ; daggoo show hi teeth . daggoo ( spring ) . swallow thine , mannikin ! white skin , white liver ! spanish sailor ( meet him ) . knife thee heartili ! big frame , small spirit ! all . A row ! a row ! a row ! tashtego ( with A whiff ) . A row a ' low , and a row aloft -- god and men -- both brawler ! humph ! belfast sailor . A row ! arrah a row ! the virgin be bless , a row ! plung in with ye ! english sailor . fair play ! snatch the spaniard ' s knife ! A ring , a ring ! old manx sailor . readi form . there ! the ring horizon . In that ring cain struck abel . sweet work , right work ! No ? whi then , god , mad ' st thou the ring ? mate ' S voic from the quarter - deck . hand by the halyard ! in top - gallant sail ! stand by to reef topsail ! all . the squall ! the squall ! jump , my jolli ! ( they scatter . ) pip ( shrink under the windlass ) . jolli ? lord help such jolli ! crish , crash ! there goe the jib - stay ! blang - whang ! god ! duck lower , pip , here come the royal yard ! It ' s wors than be in the whirl wood , the last day of the year ! who ' d go climb after chestnut now ? but there they go , all curs , and here I don ' t . fine prospect to ' em ; they ' re on the road to heaven . hold on hard ! jimmini , what a squall ! but those chap there are wors yet -- they are your white squall , they . white squall ? white whale , shirr ! shirr ! here have I heard all their chat just now , and the white whale -- shirr ! shirr ! -- but spoken of onc ! and onli thi even -- it make me jingl all over like my tambourin -- that anaconda of an old man swore ' em in to hunt him ! Oh , thou big white god aloft there somewher in yon dark , have merci on thi small black boy down here ; preserv him from all men that have no bowel to feel fear ! chapter 41 mobi dick . I , ishmael , wa one of that crew ; my shout had gone up with the rest ; my oath had been weld with their ; and stronger I shout , and more did I hammer and clinch my oath , becaus of the dread in my soul . A wild , mystic , sympathet feel wa in me ; ahab ' s quenchless feud seem mine . with greedi ear I learn the histori of that murder monster against whom I and all the other had taken our oath of violenc and reveng . for some time past , though at interv onli , the unaccompani , seclud white whale had haunt those uncivil sea mostli frequent by the sperm whale fishermen . but not all of them knew of hi exist ; onli a few of them , compar , had knowingli seen him ; while the number who as yet had actual and knowingli given battl to him , wa small inde . for , owe to the larg number of whale - cruiser ; the disorderli way they were sprinkl over the entir wateri circumfer , mani of them adventur push their quest along solitari latitud , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encount a singl news - tell sail of ani sort ; the inordin length of each separ voyag ; the irregular of the time of sail from home ; all these , with other circumst , direct and indirect , long obstruct the spread through the whole world - wide whale - fleet of the special individu tide concern mobi dick . It wa hardli to be doubt , that sever vessel report to have encount , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a sperm whale of uncommon magnitud and malign , which whale , after do great mischief to hi assail , had complet escap them ; to some mind it wa not an unfair presumpt , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than mobi dick . yet as of late the sperm whale fisheri had been mark by variou and not unfrequ instanc of great feroc , cun , and malic in the monster attack ; therefor it wa , that those who by accid ignorantli gave battl to mobi dick ; such hunter , perhap , for the most part , were content to ascrib the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the peril of the sperm whale fisheri at larg , than to the individu caus . In that way , mostli , the disastr encount between ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularli regard . and as for those who , previous hear of the white whale , by chanc caught sight of him ; in the begin of the thing they had everi one of them , almost , as boldli and fearlessli lower for him , as for ani other whale of that speci . but at length , such calam did ensu in these assault -- not restrict to sprain wrist and ankl , broken limb , or devour amput -- but fatal to the last degre of fatal ; those repeat disastr repuls , all accumul and pile their terror upon mobi dick ; those thing had gone far to shake the fortitud of mani brave hunter , to whom the stori of the white whale had eventu come . nor did wild rumor of all sort fail to exagger , and still the more horrifi the true histori of these deadli encount . for not onli do fabul rumor natur grow out of the veri bodi of all surpris terribl event , -- as the smitten tree give birth to it fungi ; but , in maritim life , far more than in that of terra firma , wild rumor abound , wherev there is ani adequ realiti for them to cling to . and as the sea surpass the land in thi matter , so the whale fisheri surpass everi other sort of maritim life , in the wonder and fear of the rumor which sometim circul there . for not onli are whalemen as a bodi unexempt from that ignor and superstiti hereditari to all sailor ; but of all sailor , they are by all odd the most directli brought into contact with whatev is appallingli astonish in the sea ; face to face they not onli eye it greatest marvel , but , hand to jaw , give battl to them . alon , in such remotest water , that though you sail a thousand mile , and pass a thousand shore , you would not come to ani chisel hearth - stone , or aught hospit beneath that part of the sun ; in such latitud and longitud , pursu too such a call as he doe , the whaleman is wrap by influenc all tend to make hi fanci pregnant with mani a mighti birth . No wonder , then , that ever gather volum from the mere transit over the widest wateri space , the outblown rumor of the white whale did in the end incorpor with themselv all manner of morbid hint , and half - form foetal suggest of supernatur agenc , which eventu invest mobi dick with new terror unborrow from anyth that visibl appear . So that in mani case such a panic did he final strike , that few who by those rumor , at least , had heard of the white whale , few of those hunter were will to encount the peril of hi jaw . but there were still other and more vital practic influenc at work . not even at the present day ha the origin prestig of the sperm whale , as fear distinguish from all other speci of the leviathan , die out of the mind of the whalemen as a bodi . there are those thi day among them , who , though intellig and courag enough in offer battl to the greenland or right whale , would perhap -- either from profession inexperi , or incompet , or timid , declin a contest with the sperm whale ; at ani rate , there are plenti of whalemen , especi among those whale nation not sail under the american flag , who have never hostil encount the sperm whale , but whose sole knowledg of the leviathan is restrict to the ignobl monster primit pursu in the north ; seat on their hatch , these men will hearken with a childish firesid interest and awe , to the wild , strang tale of southern whale . nor is the pre - emin tremend of the great sperm whale anywher more feelingli comprehend , than on board of those prow which stem him . and as if the now test realiti of hi might had in former legendari time thrown it shadow befor it ; we find some book naturalist -- olassen and povelson -- declar the sperm whale not onli to be a constern to everi other creatur in the sea , but also to be so incred feroci as continu to be athirst for human blood . nor even down to so late a time as cuvier ' s , were these or almost similar impress effac . for in hi natur histori , the baron himself affirm that at sight of the sperm whale , all fish ( shark includ ) are `` struck with the most live terror , '' and `` often in the precipit of their flight dash themselv against the rock with such violenc as to caus instantan death . '' and howev the gener experi in the fisheri may amend such report as these ; yet in their full terribl , even to the bloodthirsti item of povelson , the superstiti belief in them is , in some vicissitud of their vocat , reviv in the mind of the hunter . So that overaw by the rumor and portent concern him , not a few of the fishermen recal , in refer to mobi dick , the earlier day of the sperm whale fisheri , when it wa oftentim hard to induc long practis right whalemen to embark in the peril of thi new and dare warfar ; such men protest that although other leviathan might be hope pursu , yet to chase and point lanc at such an apparit as the sperm whale wa not for mortal man . that to attempt it , would be inevit to be torn into a quick etern . On thi head , there are some remark document that may be consult . nevertheless , some there were , who even in the face of these thing were readi to give chase to mobi dick ; and a still greater number who , chanc onli to hear of him distantli and vagu , without the specif detail of ani certain calam , and without superstiti accompani , were suffici hardi not to flee from the battl if offer . one of the wild suggest refer to , as at last come to be link with the white whale in the mind of the superstiti inclin , wa the unearthli conceit that mobi dick wa ubiquit ; that he had actual been encount in opposit latitud at one and the same instant of time . nor , credul as such mind must have been , wa thi conceit altogeth without some faint show of superstiti probabl . for as the secret of the current in the sea have never yet been divulg , even to the most erudit research ; so the hidden way of the sperm whale when beneath the surfac remain , in great part , unaccount to hi pursuer ; and from time to time have origin the most curiou and contradictori specul regard them , especi concern the mystic mode wherebi , after sound to a great depth , he transport himself with such vast swift to the most wide distant point . It is a thing well known to both american and english whale - ship , and as well a thing place upon authorit record year ago by scoresbi , that some whale have been captur far north in the pacif , in whose bodi have been found the barb of harpoon dart in the greenland sea . nor is it to be gainsaid , that in some of these instanc it ha been declar that the interv of time between the two assault could not have exceed veri mani day . henc , by infer , it ha been believ by some whalemen , that the nor ' west passag , so long a problem to man , wa never a problem to the whale . So that here , in the real live experi of live men , the prodigi relat in old time of the inland strello mountain in portug ( near whose top there wa said to be a lake in which the wreck of ship float up to the surfac ) ; and that still more wonder stori of the arethusa fountain near syracus ( whose water were believ to have come from the holi land by an underground passag ) ; these fabul narrat are almost fulli equal by the realiti of the whalemen . forc into familiar , then , with such prodigi as these ; and know that after repeat , intrepid assault , the white whale had escap aliv ; it can not be much matter of surpris that some whalemen should go still further in their superstit ; declar mobi dick not onli ubiquit , but immort ( for immort is but ubiqu in time ) ; that though grove of spear should be plant in hi flank , he would still swim away unharm ; or if inde he should ever be made to spout thick blood , such a sight would be but a ghastli decept ; for again in unensanguin billow hundr of leagu away , hi unsulli jet would onc more be seen . but even strip of these supernatur surmis , there wa enough in the earthli make and incontest charact of the monster to strike the imagin with unwont power . for , it wa not so much hi uncommon bulk that so much distinguish him from other sperm whale , but , as wa elsewher thrown out -- a peculiar snow - white wrinkl forehead , and a high , pyramid white hump . these were hi promin featur ; the token wherebi , even in the limitless , unchart sea , he reveal hi ident , at a long distanc , to those who knew him . the rest of hi bodi wa so streak , and spot , and marbl with the same shroud hue , that , in the end , he had gain hi distinct appel of the white whale ; a name , inde , liter justifi by hi vivid aspect , when seen glide at high noon through a dark blue sea , leav a milki - way wake of creami foam , all spangl with golden gleam . nor wa it hi unwont magnitud , nor hi remark hue , nor yet hi deform lower jaw , that so much invest the whale with natur terror , as that unexampl , intellig malign which , accord to specif account , he had over and over again evinc in hi assault . more than all , hi treacher retreat struck more of dismay than perhap aught els . for , when swim befor hi exult pursuer , with everi appar symptom of alarm , he had sever time been known to turn round suddenli , and , bear down upon them , either stave their boat to splinter , or drive them back in constern to their ship . alreadi sever fatal had attend hi chase . but though similar disast , howev littl bruit ashor , were by no mean unusu in the fisheri ; yet , in most instanc , such seem the white whale ' s infern aforethought of feroc , that everi dismemb or death that he caus , wa not wholli regard as have been inflict by an unintellig agent . judg , then , to what pitch of inflam , distract furi the mind of hi more desper hunter were impel , when amid the chip of chew boat , and the sink limb of torn comrad , they swam out of the white curd of the whale ' s dire wrath into the seren , exasper sunlight , that smile on , as if at a birth or a bridal . hi three boat stove around him , and oar and men both whirl in the eddi ; one captain , seiz the line - knife from hi broken prow , had dash at the whale , as an arkansa duellist at hi foe , blindli seek with a six inch blade to reach the fathom - deep life of the whale . that captain wa ahab . and then it wa , that suddenli sweep hi sickl - shape lower jaw beneath him , mobi dick had reap away ahab ' s leg , as a mower a blade of grass in the field . No turban turk , no hire venetian or malay , could have smote him with more seem malic . small reason wa there to doubt , then , that ever sinc that almost fatal encount , ahab had cherish a wild vindict against the whale , all the more fell for that in hi frantic morbid he at last came to identifi with him , not onli all hi bodili woe , but all hi intellectu and spiritu exasper . the white whale swam befor him as the monomaniac incarn of all those malici agenc which some deep men feel eat in them , till they are left live on with half a heart and half a lung . that intang malign which ha been from the begin ; to whose dominion even the modern christian ascrib one - half of the world ; which the ancient ophit of the east reverenc in their statu devil ; -- ahab did not fall down and worship it like them ; but deliri transfer it idea to the abhor white whale , he pit himself , all mutil , against it . all that most madden and torment ; all that stir up the lee of thing ; all truth with malic in it ; all that crack the sinew and cake the brain ; all the subtl demon of life and thought ; all evil , to crazi ahab , were visibl personifi , and made practic assail in mobi dick . He pile upon the whale ' s white hump the sum of all the gener rage and hate felt by hi whole race from adam down ; and then , as if hi chest had been a mortar , he burst hi hot heart ' s shell upon it . It is not probabl that thi monomania in him took it instant rise at the precis time of hi bodili dismember . then , in dart at the monster , knife in hand , he had but given loos to a sudden , passion , corpor animos ; and when he receiv the stroke that tore him , he probabl but felt the agon bodili lacer , but noth more . yet , when by thi collis forc to turn toward home , and for long month of day and week , ahab and anguish lay stretch togeth in one hammock , round in mid winter that dreari , howl patagonian cape ; then it wa , that hi torn bodi and gash soul bled into one anoth ; and so interfus , made him mad . that it wa onli then , on the homeward voyag , after the encount , that the final monomania seiz him , seem all but certain from the fact that , at interv dure the passag , he wa a rave lunat ; and , though unlimb of a leg , yet such vital strength yet lurk in hi egyptian chest , and wa moreov intensifi by hi delirium , that hi mate were forc to lace him fast , even there , as he sail , rave in hi hammock . In a strait - jacket , he swung to the mad rock of the gale . and , when run into more suffer latitud , the ship , with mild stun ' sail spread , float across the tranquil tropic , and , to all appear , the old man ' s delirium seem left behind him with the cape horn swell , and he came forth from hi dark den into the bless light and air ; even then , when he bore that firm , collect front , howev pale , and issu hi calm order onc again ; and hi mate thank god the dire mad wa now gone ; even then , ahab , in hi hidden self , rave on . human mad is oftentim a cun and most felin thing . when you think it fled , it may have but becom transfigur into some still subtler form . ahab ' s full lunaci subsid not , but deepeningli contract ; like the unab hudson , when that nobl northman flow narrowli , but unfathom through the highland gorg . but , as in hi narrow - flow monomania , not one jot of ahab ' s broad mad had been left behind ; so in that broad mad , not one jot of hi great natur intellect had perish . that befor live agent , now becam the live instrument . If such a furiou trope may stand , hi special lunaci storm hi gener saniti , and carri it , and turn all it concentr cannon upon it own mad mark ; so that far from have lost hi strength , ahab , to that one end , did now possess a thousand fold more potenc than ever he had sane brought to bear upon ani one reason object . thi is much ; yet ahab ' s larger , darker , deeper part remain unhint . but vain to popular profund , and all truth is profound . wind far down from within the veri heart of thi spike hotel de cluni where we here stand -- howev grand and wonder , now quit it ; -- and take your way , ye nobler , sadder soul , to those vast roman hall of therm ; where far beneath the fantast tower of man ' s upper earth , hi root of grandeur , hi whole aw essenc sit in beard state ; an antiqu buri beneath antiqu , and throne on torso ! So with a broken throne , the great god mock that captiv king ; so like a caryatid , he patient sit , uphold on hi frozen brow the pile entablatur of age . wind ye down there , ye prouder , sadder soul ! question that proud , sad king ! A famili like ! aye , he did beget ye , ye young exil royalti ; and from your grim sire onli will the old state - secret come . now , in hi heart , ahab had some glimps of thi , name : all my mean are sane , my motiv and my object mad . yet without power to kill , or chang , or shun the fact ; he likewis knew that to mankind he did long dissembl ; in some sort , did still . but that thing of hi dissembl wa onli subject to hi percept , not to hi will determin . nevertheless , so well did he succeed in that dissembl , that when with ivori leg he step ashor at last , no nantucket thought him otherwis than but natur griev , and that to the quick , with the terribl casualti which had overtaken him . the report of hi undeni delirium at sea wa likewis popularli ascrib to a kindr caus . and so too , all the ad moodi which alway afterward , to the veri day of sail in the pequod on the present voyag , sat brood on hi brow . nor is it so veri unlik , that far from distrust hi fit for anoth whale voyag , on account of such dark symptom , the calcul peopl of that prudent isl were inclin to harbor the conceit , that for those veri reason he wa all the better qualifi and set on edg , for a pursuit so full of rage and wild as the bloodi hunt of whale . gnaw within and scorch without , with the infix , unrel fang of some incur idea ; such an one , could he be found , would seem the veri man to dart hi iron and lift hi lanc against the most appal of all brute . Or , if for ani reason thought to be corpor incapacit for that , yet such an one would seem superl compet to cheer and howl on hi underl to the attack . but be all thi as it may , certain it is , that with the mad secret of hi unab rage bolt up and key in him , ahab had purpos sail upon the present voyag with the one onli and all - engross object of hunt the white whale . had ani one of hi old acquaint on shore but half dream of what wa lurk in him then , how soon would their aghast and righteou soul have wrench the ship from such a fiendish man ! they were bent on profit cruis , the profit to be count down in dollar from the mint . He wa intent on an audaci , immitig , and supernatur reveng . here , then , wa thi grey - head , ungodli old man , chase with curs a job ' s whale round the world , at the head of a crew , too , chiefli made up of mongrel renegad , and castaway , and cannib -- moral enfeebl also , by the incompet of mere unaid virtu or right - minded in starbuck , the invuner jolliti of indiffer and reckless in stubb , and the pervad mediocr in flask . such a crew , so offic , seem special pick and pack by some infern fatal to help him to hi monomaniac reveng . how it wa that they so aboundingli respond to the old man ' s ire -- by what evil magic their soul were possess , that at time hi hate seem almost their ; the white whale as much their insuffer foe as hi ; how all thi came to be -- what the white whale wa to them , or how to their unconsci understand , also , in some dim , unsuspect way , he might have seem the glide great demon of the sea of life , -- all thi to explain , would be to dive deeper than ishmael can go . the subterranean miner that work in us all , how can one tell whither lead hi shaft by the ever shift , muffl sound of hi pick ? who doe not feel the irresist arm drag ? what skiff in tow of a seventi - four can stand still ? for one , I gave myself up to the abandon of the time and the place ; but while yet all a - rush to encount the whale , could see naught in that brute but the deadliest ill . chapter 42 the white of the whale . what the white whale wa to ahab , ha been hint ; what , at time , he wa to me , as yet remain unsaid . asid from those more obviou consider touch mobi dick , which could not but occasion awaken in ani man ' s soul some alarm , there wa anoth thought , or rather vagu , nameless horror concern him , which at time by it intens complet overpow all the rest ; and yet so mystic and well nigh ineff wa it , that I almost despair of put it in a comprehens form . It wa the white of the whale that abov all thing appal me . but how can I hope to explain myself here ; and yet , in some dim , random way , explain myself I must , els all these chapter might be naught . though in mani natur object , white refiningli enhanc beauti , as if impart some special virtu of it own , as in marbl , japonica , and pearl ; and though variou nation have in some way recognis a certain royal preemin in thi hue ; even the barbar , grand old king of pegu place the titl `` lord of the white eleph `` abov all their other magniloqu ascript of dominion ; and the modern king of siam unfurl the same snow - white quadrup in the royal standard ; and the hanoverian flag bear the one figur of a snow - white charger ; and the great austrian empir , caesarian , heir to overlord rome , have for the imperi colour the same imperi hue ; and though thi pre - emin in it appli to the human race itself , give the white man ideal mastership over everi duski tribe ; and though , besid , all thi , white ha been even made signific of glad , for among the roman a white stone mark a joy day ; and though in other mortal sympathi and symbol , thi same hue is made the emblem of mani touch , nobl thing -- the innoc of bride , the benign of age ; though among the red men of america the give of the white belt of wampum wa the deepest pledg of honour ; though in mani clime , white typifi the majesti of justic in the ermin of the judg , and contribut to the daili state of king and queen drawn by milk - white steed ; though even in the higher mysteri of the most august religion it ha been made the symbol of the divin spotless and power ; by the persian fire worshipp , the white fork flame be held the holiest on the altar ; and in the greek mytholog , great jove himself be made incarn in a snow - white bull ; and though to the nobl iroquoi , the midwint sacrific of the sacr white dog wa by far the holiest festiv of their theolog , that spotless , faith creatur be held the purest envoy they could send to the great spirit with the annual tide of their own fidel ; and though directli from the latin word for white , all christian priest deriv the name of one part of their sacr vestur , the alb or tunic , worn beneath the cassock ; and though among the holi pomp of the romish faith , white is special employ in the celebr of the passion of our lord ; though in the vision of St . john , white robe are given to the redeem , and the four - and - twenti elder stand cloth in white befor the great - white throne , and the holi one that sitteth there white like wool ; yet for all these accumul associ , with whatev is sweet , and honour , and sublim , there yet lurk an elus someth in the innermost idea of thi hue , which strike more of panic to the soul than that red which affright in blood . thi elus qualiti it is , which caus the thought of white , when divorc from more kindli associ , and coupl with ani object terribl in itself , to heighten that terror to the furthest bound . wit the white bear of the pole , and the white shark of the tropic ; what but their smooth , flaki white make them the transcend horror they are ? that ghastli white it is which impart such an abhorr mild , even more loathsom than terrif , to the dumb gloat of their aspect . So that not the fierc - fang tiger in hi herald coat can so stagger courag as the white - shroud bear or shark . * * with refer to the polar bear , it may possibl be urg by him who would fain go still deeper into thi matter , that it is not the white , separ regard , which heighten the intoler hideous of that brute ; for , analys , that heighten hideous , it might be said , onli rise from the circumst , that the irrespons feroci of the creatur stand invest in the fleec of celesti innoc and love ; and henc , by bring togeth two such opposit emot in our mind , the polar bear frighten us with so unnatur a contrast . but even assum all thi to be true ; yet , were it not for the white , you would not have that intensifi terror . As for the white shark , the white glide ghostli of repos in that creatur , when beheld in hi ordinari mood , strang talli with the same qualiti in the polar quadrup . thi peculiar is most vividli hit by the french in the name they bestow upon that fish . the romish mass for the dead begin with `` requiem eternam `` ( etern rest ) , whenc requiem denomin the mass itself , and ani other funer music . now , in allus to the white , silent still of death in thi shark , and the mild deadli of hi habit , the french call him requin . bethink thee of the albatross , whenc come those cloud of spiritu wonder and pale dread , in which that white phantom sail in all imagin ? not coleridg first threw that spell ; but god ' s great , unflatt laureat , natur . * * I rememb the first albatross I ever saw . It wa dure a prolong gale , in water hard upon the antarct sea . from my forenoon watch below , I ascend to the overcloud deck ; and there , dash upon the main hatch , I saw a regal , featheri thing of unspot white , and with a hook , roman bill sublim . At interv , it arch forth it vast archangel wing , as if to embrac some holi ark . wondrou flutter and throb shook it . though bodili unharm , it utter cri , as some king ' s ghost in supernatur distress . through it inexpress , strang eye , methought I peep to secret which took hold of god . As abraham befor the angel , I bow myself ; the white thing wa so white , it wing so wide , and in those for ever exil water , I had lost the miser warp memori of tradit and of town . long I gaze at that prodigi of plumag . I can not tell , can onli hint , the thing that dart through me then . but at last I awok ; and turn , ask a sailor what bird wa thi . A goney , he repli . goney ! never had heard that name befor ; is it conceiv that thi gloriou thing is utterli unknown to men ashor ! never ! but some time after , I learn that goney wa some seaman ' s name for albatross . So that by no possibl could coleridg ' s wild rhyme have had aught to do with those mystic impress which were mine , when I saw that bird upon our deck . for neither had I then read the rhyme , nor knew the bird to be an albatross . yet , in say thi , I do but indirectli burnish a littl brighter the nobl merit of the poem and the poet . I assert , then , that in the wondrou bodili white of the bird chiefli lurk the secret of the spell ; a truth the more evinc in thi , that by a solec of term there are bird call grey albatross ; and these I have frequent seen , but never with such emot as when I beheld the antarct fowl . but how had the mystic thing been caught ? whisper it not , and I will tell ; with a treacher hook and line , as the fowl float on the sea . At last the captain made a postman of it ; tie a letter , leathern talli round it neck , with the ship ' s time and place ; and then let it escap . but I doubt not , that leathern talli , meant for man , wa taken off in heaven , when the white fowl flew to join the wing - fold , the invok , and ador cherubim ! most famou in our western annal and indian tradit is that of the white steed of the prairi ; a magnific milk - white charger , larg - eye , small - head , bluff - chest , and with the digniti of a thousand monarch in hi lofti , overscorn carriag . He wa the elect xerx of vast herd of wild hors , whose pastur in those day were onli fenc by the rocki mountain and the alleghani . At their flame head he westward troop it like that chosen star which everi even lead on the host of light . the flash cascad of hi mane , the curv comet of hi tail , invest him with hous more resplend than gold and silver - beater could have furnish him . A most imperi and archangel apparit of that unfallen , western world , which to the eye of the old trapper and hunter reviv the glori of those primev time when adam walk majest as a god , bluff - brow and fearless as thi mighti steed . whether march amid hi aid and marshal in the van of countless cohort that endlessli stream it over the plain , like an ohio ; or whether with hi circumambi subject brows all around at the horizon , the white steed gallopingli review them with warm nostril redden through hi cool milki ; in whatev aspect he present himself , alway to the bravest indian he wa the object of trembl rever and awe . nor can it be question from what stand on legendari record of thi nobl hors , that it wa hi spiritu white chiefli , which so cloth him with divin ; and that thi divin had that in it which , though command worship , at the same time enforc a certain nameless terror . but there are other instanc where thi white lose all that accessori and strang glori which invest it in the white steed and albatross . what is it that in the albino man so peculiarli repel and often shock the eye , as that sometim he is loath by hi own kith and kin ! It is that white which invest him , a thing express by the name he bear . the albino is as well made as other men -- ha no substant deform -- and yet thi mere aspect of all - pervad white make him more strang hideou than the ugliest abort . whi should thi be so ? nor , in quit other aspect , doe natur in her least palpabl but not the less malici agenc , fail to enlist among her forc thi crown attribut of the terribl . from it snowi aspect , the gauntlet ghost of the southern sea ha been denomin the white squall . nor , in some histor instanc , ha the art of human malic omit so potent an auxiliari . how wildli it heighten the effect of that passag in froissart , when , mask in the snowi symbol of their faction , the desper white hood of ghent murder their bailiff in the market - place ! nor , in some thing , doe the common , hereditari experi of all mankind fail to bear wit to the supernatur of thi hue . It can not well be doubt , that the one visibl qualiti in the aspect of the dead which most appal the gazer , is the marbl pallor linger there ; as if inde that pallor were as much like the badg of constern in the other world , as of mortal trepid here . and from that pallor of the dead , we borrow the express hue of the shroud in which we wrap them . nor even in our superstit do we fail to throw the same snowi mantl round our phantom ; all ghost rise in a milk - white fog -- yea , while these terror seiz us , let us add , that even the king of terror , when personifi by the evangelist , ride on hi pallid hors . therefor , in hi other mood , symbol whatev grand or graciou thing he will by white , no man can deni that in it profoundest ideal signific it call up a peculiar apparit to the soul . but though without dissent thi point be fix , how is mortal man to account for it ? To analys it , would seem imposs . can we , then , by the citat of some of those instanc wherein thi thing of white -- though for the time either wholli or in great part strip of all direct associ calcul to impart to it aught fear , but nevertheless , is found to exert over us the same sorceri , howev modifi ; -- can we thu hope to light upon some chanc clue to conduct us to the hidden caus we seek ? let us tri . but in a matter like thi , subtleti appeal to subtleti , and without imagin no man can follow anoth into these hall . and though , doubtless , some at least of the imagin impress about to be present may have been share by most men , yet few perhap were entir consciou of them at the time , and therefor may not be abl to recal them now . whi to the man of untutor ideal , who happen to be but loos acquaint with the peculiar charact of the day , doe the bare mention of whitsuntid marshal in the fanci such long , dreari , speechless process of slow - pace pilgrim , down - cast and hood with new - fallen snow ? Or , to the unread , unsophist protest of the middl american state , whi doe the pass mention of a white friar or a white nun , evok such an eyeless statu in the soul ? Or what is there apart from the tradit of dungeon warrior and king ( which will not wholli account for it ) that make the white tower of london tell so much more strongli on the imagin of an untravel american , than those other stori structur , it neighbor -- the byward tower , or even the bloodi ? and those sublim tower , the white mountain of new hampshir , whenc , in peculiar mood , come that gigant ghostli over the soul at the bare mention of that name , while the thought of virginia ' s blue ridg is full of a soft , dewi , distant dreami ? Or whi , irrespect of all latitud and longitud , doe the name of the white sea exert such a spectral over the fanci , while that of the yellow sea lull us with mortal thought of long lacquer mild afternoon on the wave , follow by the gaudiest and yet sleepiest of sunset ? Or , to choos a wholli unsubstanti instanc , pure address to the fanci , whi , in read the old fairi tale of central europ , doe `` the tall pale man `` of the hartz forest , whose changeless pallor unrustlingli glide through the green of the grove -- whi is thi phantom more terribl than all the whoop imp of the blocksburg ? nor is it , altogeth , the remembr of her cathedr - toppl earthquak ; nor the stampedo of her frantic sea ; nor the tearless of arid sky that never rain ; nor the sight of her wide field of lean spire , wrench cope - stone , and cross all adroop ( like cant yard of anchor fleet ) ; and her suburban avenu of hous - wall lie over upon each other , as a toss pack of card ; -- it is not these thing alon which make tearless lima , the strangest , saddest citi thou can ' st see . for lima ha taken the white veil ; and there is a higher horror in thi white of her woe . old as pizarro , thi white keep her ruin for ever new ; admit not the cheer green of complet decay ; spread over her broken rampart the rigid pallor of an apoplexi that fix it own distort . I know that , to the common apprehens , thi phenomenon of white is not confess to be the prime agent in exagger the terror of object otherwis terribl ; nor to the unimagin mind is there aught of terror in those appear whose aw to anoth mind almost sole consist in thi one phenomenon , especi when exhibit under ani form at all approach to mute or univers . what I mean by these two statement may perhap be respect elucid by the follow exampl . first : the marin , when draw nigh the coast of foreign land , if by night he hear the roar of breaker , start to vigil , and feel just enough of trepid to sharpen all hi faculti ; but under precis similar circumst , let him be call from hi hammock to view hi ship sail through a midnight sea of milki white -- as if from encircl headland shoal of comb white bear were swim round him , then he feel a silent , superstiti dread ; the shroud phantom of the whiten water is horribl to him as a real ghost ; in vain the lead assur him he is still off sound ; heart and helm they both go down ; he never rest till blue water is under him again . yet where is the marin who will tell thee , `` sir , it wa not so much the fear of strike hidden rock , as the fear of that hideou white that so stir me ? '' second : To the nativ indian of peru , the continu sight of the snowhowdah and convey naught of dread , except , perhap , in the mere fanci of the etern frost desol reign at such vast altitud , and the natur conceit of what a fear it would be to lose oneself in such inhuman solitud . much the same is it with the backwoodsman of the west , who with compar indiffer view an unbound prairi sheet with driven snow , no shadow of tree or twig to break the fix tranc of white . not so the sailor , behold the sceneri of the antarct sea ; where at time , by some infern trick of legerdemain in the power of frost and air , he , shiver and half shipwreck , instead of rainbow speak hope and solac to hi miseri , view what seem a boundless churchyard grin upon him with it lean ice monument and splinter cross . but thou sayest , methink that white - lead chapter about white is but a white flag hung out from a craven soul ; thou surrenderest to a hypo , ishmael . tell me , whi thi strong young colt , foal in some peac valley of vermont , far remov from all beast of prey -- whi is it that upon the sunniest day , if you but shake a fresh buffalo robe behind him , so that he can not even see it , but onli smell it wild anim muski -- whi will he start , snort , and with burst eye paw the ground in phrensi of affright ? there is no remembr in him of ani gore of wild creatur in hi green northern home , so that the strang muski he smell can not recal to him anyth associ with the experi of former peril ; for what know he , thi new england colt , of the black bison of distant oregon ? No ; but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute , the instinct of the knowledg of the demon in the world . though thousand of mile from oregon , still when he smell that savag musk , the rend , gore bison herd are as present as to the desert wild foal of the prairi , which thi instant they may be trampl into dust . thu , then , the muffl roll of a milki sea ; the bleak rustl of the festoon frost of mountain ; the desol shift of the windrow snow of prairi ; all these , to ishmael , are as the shake of that buffalo robe to the frighten colt ! though neither know where lie the nameless thing of which the mystic sign give forth such hint ; yet with me , as with the colt , somewher those thing must exist . though in mani of it aspect thi visibl world seem form in love , the invis sphere were form in fright . but not yet have we solv the incant of thi white , and learn whi it appeal with such power to the soul ; and more strang and far more portent -- whi , as we have seen , it is at onc the most mean symbol of spiritu thing , nay , the veri veil of the christian ' s deiti ; and yet should be as it is , the intensifi agent in thing the most appal to mankind . Is it that by it indefinit it shadow forth the heartless void and immens of the univers , and thu stab us from behind with the thought of annihil , when behold the white depth of the milki way ? Or is it , that as in essenc white is not so much a colour as the visibl absenc of colour ; and at the same time the concret of all colour ; is it for these reason that there is such a dumb blank , full of mean , in a wide landscap of snow -- a colourless , all - colour of atheism from which we shrink ? and when we consid that other theori of the natur philosoph , that all other earthli hue -- everi state or love emblazon -- the sweet ting of sunset sky and wood ; yea , and the gild velvet of butterfli , and the butterfli cheek of young girl ; all these are but subtil deceit , not actual inher in substanc , but onli laid on from without ; so that all deifi natur absolut paint like the harlot , whose allur cover noth but the charnel - hous within ; and when we proceed further , and consid that the mystic cosmet which produc everi one of her hue , the great principl of light , for ever remain white or colourless in itself , and if oper without medium upon matter , would touch all object , even tulip and rose , with it own blank ting -- ponder all thi , the palsi univers lie befor us a leper ; and like wil travel in lapland , who refus to wear colour and colour glass upon their eye , so the wretch infidel gaze himself blind at the monument white shroud that wrap all the prospect around him . and of all these thing the albino whale wa the symbol . wonder ye then at the fieri hunt ? chapter 43 hark ! `` hist ! did you hear that nois , cabaco ? It wa the middl - watch ; a fair moonlight ; the seamen were stand in a cordon , extend from one of the fresh - water butt in the waist , to the scuttl - butt near the taffrail . In thi manner , they pass the bucket to fill the scuttl - butt . stand , for the most part , on the hallow precinct of the quarter - deck , they were care not to speak or rustl their feet . from hand to hand , the bucket went in the deepest silenc , onli broken by the occasion flap of a sail , and the steadi hum of the unceasingli advanc keel . It wa in the midst of thi repos , that archi , one of the cordon , whose post wa near the after - hatch , whisper to hi neighbor , a cholo , the word abov . `` hist ! did you hear that nois , cabaco ? '' `` take the bucket , will ye , archi ? what nois d ' ye mean ? '' `` there it is again -- under the hatch -- don ' t you hear it -- a cough -- it sound like a cough . '' `` cough be damn ! pass along that return bucket . '' `` there again -- there it is ! -- it sound like two or three sleeper turn over , now ! '' `` caramba ! have done , shipmat , will ye ? It ' s the three soak biscuit ye eat for supper turn over insid of ye -- noth els . look to the bucket ! '' `` say what ye will , shipmat ; I ' ve sharp ear . '' `` aye , you are the chap , ain ' t ye , that heard the hum of the old quakeress ' s knit - needl fifti mile at sea from nantucket ; you ' re the chap . '' `` grin away ; we ' ll see what turn up . hark ye , cabaco , there is somebodi down in the after - hold that ha not yet been seen on deck ; and I suspect our old mogul know someth of it too . I heard stubb tell flask , one morn watch , that there wa someth of that sort in the wind . '' `` tish ! the bucket ! '' chapter 44 the chart . had you follow captain ahab down into hi cabin after the squall that took place on the night succeed that wild ratif of hi purpos with hi crew , you would have seen him go to a locker in the transom , and bring out a larg wrinkl roll of yellowish sea chart , spread them befor him on hi screw - down tabl . then seat himself befor it , you would have seen him intent studi the variou line and shade which there met hi eye ; and with slow but steadi pencil trace addit cours over space that befor were blank . At interv , he would refer to pile of old log - book besid him , wherein were set down the season and place in which , on variou former voyag of variou ship , sperm whale had been captur or seen . while thu employ , the heavi pewter lamp suspend in chain over hi head , continu rock with the motion of the ship , and for ever threw shift gleam and shadow of line upon hi wrinkl brow , till it almost seem that while he himself wa mark out line and cours on the wrinkl chart , some invis pencil wa also trace line and cours upon the deepli mark chart of hi forehead . but it wa not thi night in particular that , in the solitud of hi cabin , ahab thu ponder over hi chart . almost everi night they were brought out ; almost everi night some pencil mark were effac , and other were substitut . for with the chart of all four ocean befor him , ahab wa thread a maze of current and eddi , with a view to the more certain accomplish of that monomaniac thought of hi soul . now , to ani one not fulli acquaint with the way of the leviathan , it might seem an absurdli hopeless task thu to seek out one solitari creatur in the unhoop ocean of thi planet . but not so did it seem to ahab , who knew the set of all tide and current ; and therebi calcul the drift of the sperm whale ' s food ; and , also , call to mind the regular , ascertain season for hunt him in particular latitud ; could arriv at reason surmis , almost approach to certainti , concern the timeliest day to be upon thi or that ground in search of hi prey . So assur , inde , is the fact concern the periodic of the sperm whale ' s resort to given water , that mani hunter believ that , could he be close observ and studi throughout the world ; were the log for one voyag of the entir whale fleet care collat , then the migrat of the sperm whale would be found to correspond in invari to those of the her - shoal or the flight of swallow . On thi hint , attempt have been made to construct elabor migratori chart of the sperm whale . * * sinc the abov wa written , the statement is happili born out by an offici circular , issu by lieuten mauri , of the nation observatori , washington , april 16th , 1851 . By that circular , it appear that precis such a chart is in cours of complet ; and portion of it are present in the circular . `` thi chart divid the ocean into district of five degre of latitud by five degre of longitud ; perpendicularli through each of which district are twelv column for the twelv month ; and horizont through each of which district are three line ; one to show the number of day that have been spent in each month in everi district , and the two other to show the number of day in which whale , sperm or right , have been seen . '' besid , when make a passag from one feed - ground to anoth , the sperm whale , guid by some infal instinct -- say , rather , secret intellig from the deiti -- mostli swim in vein , as they are call ; continu their way along a given ocean - line with such undevi exactitud , that no ship ever sail her cours , by ani chart , with one tith of such marvel precis . though , in these case , the direct taken by ani one whale be straight as a surveyor ' s parallel , and though the line of advanc be strictli confin to it own unavoid , straight wake , yet the arbitrari vein in which at these time he is said to swim , gener embrac some few mile in width ( more or less , as the vein is presum to expand or contract ) ; but never exce the visual sweep from the whale - ship ' s mast - head , when circumspectli glide along thi magic zone . the sum is , that at particular season within that breadth and along that path , migrat whale may with great confid be look for . and henc not onli at substanti time , upon well known separ feed - ground , could ahab hope to encount hi prey ; but in cross the widest expans of water between those ground he could , by hi art , so place and time himself on hi way , as even then not to be wholli without prospect of a meet . there wa a circumst which at first sight seem to entangl hi deliri but still method scheme . but not so in the realiti , perhap . though the gregari sperm whale have their regular season for particular ground , yet in gener you can not conclud that the herd which haunt such and such a latitud or longitud thi year , say , will turn out to be ident the same with those that were found there the preced season ; though there are peculiar and unquestion instanc where the contrari of thi ha prove true . In gener , the same remark , onli within a less wide limit , appli to the solitari and hermit among the matur , age sperm whale . So that though mobi dick had in a former year been seen , for exampl , on what is call the seychel ground in the indian ocean , or volcano bay on the japanes coast ; yet it did not follow , that were the pequod to visit either of those spot at ani subsequ correspond season , she would infal encount him there . So , too , with some other feed ground , where he had at time reveal himself . but all these seem onli hi casual stop - place and ocean - inn , so to speak , not hi place of prolong abod . and where ahab ' s chanc of accomplish hi object have hitherto been spoken of , allus ha onli been made to whatev way - side , anteced , extra prospect were hi , ere a particular set time or place were attain , when all possibl would becom probabl , and , as ahab fondli thought , everi possibl the next thing to a certainti . that particular set time and place were conjoin in the one technic phrase -- the season - on - the - line . for there and then , for sever consecut year , mobi dick had been period descri , linger in those water for awhil , as the sun , in it annual round , loiter for a predict interv in ani one sign of the zodiac . there it wa , too , that most of the deadli encount with the white whale had taken place ; there the wave were stori with hi deed ; there also wa that tragic spot where the monomaniac old man had found the aw motiv to hi vengeanc . but in the cautiou comprehens and unloit vigil with which ahab threw hi brood soul into thi unfalt hunt , he would not permit himself to rest all hi hope upon the one crown fact abov mention , howev flatter it might be to those hope ; nor in the sleepless of hi vow could he so tranquil hi unquiet heart as to postpon all interven quest . now , the pequod had sail from nantucket at the veri begin of the season - on - the - line . No possibl endeavor then could enabl her command to make the great passag southward , doubl cape horn , and then run down sixti degre of latitud arriv in the equatori pacif in time to cruis there . therefor , he must wait for the next ensu season . yet the prematur hour of the pequod ' s sail had , perhap , been correctli select by ahab , with a view to thi veri complexion of thing . becaus , an interv of three hundr and sixti - five day and night wa befor him ; an interv which , instead of impati endur ashor , he would spend in a miscellan hunt ; if by chanc the white whale , spend hi vacat in sea far remot from hi period feed - ground , should turn up hi wrinkl brow off the persian gulf , or in the bengal bay , or china sea , or in ani other water haunt by hi race . So that monsoon , pampa , nor '- wester , harmattan , trade ; ani wind but the levant and simoon , might blow mobi dick into the deviou zig - zag world - circl of the pequod ' s circumnavig wake . but grant all thi ; yet , regard discreetli and coolli , seem it not but a mad idea , thi ; that in the broad boundless ocean , one solitari whale , even if encount , should be thought capabl of individu recognit from hi hunter , even as a white - beard mufti in the throng thoroughfar of constantinopl ? ye . for the peculiar snow - white brow of mobi dick , and hi snow - white hump , could not but be unmistak . and have I not talli the whale , ahab would mutter to himself , as after pore over hi chart till long after midnight he would throw himself back in reveri -- talli him , and shall he escap ? hi broad fin are bore , and scallop out like a lost sheep ' s ear ! and here , hi mad mind would run on in a breathless race ; till a weari and faint of ponder came over him ; and in the open air of the deck he would seek to recov hi strength . Ah , god ! what tranc of torment doe that man endur who is consum with one unachiev reveng desir . He sleep with clench hand ; and wake with hi own bloodi nail in hi palm . often , when forc from hi hammock by exhaust and intoler vivid dream of the night , which , resum hi own intens thought through the day , carri them on amid a clash of phrensi , and whirl them round and round and round in hi blaze brain , till the veri throb of hi life - spot becam insuffer anguish ; and when , as wa sometim the case , these spiritu throe in him heav hi be up from it base , and a chasm seem open in him , from which fork flame and lightn shot up , and accurs fiend beckon him to leap down among them ; when thi hell in himself yawn beneath him , a wild cri would be heard through the ship ; and with glare eye ahab would burst from hi state room , as though escap from a bed that wa on fire . yet these , perhap , instead of be the unsuppress symptom of some latent weak , or fright at hi own resolv , were but the plainest token of it intens . for , at such time , crazi ahab , the scheme , unappeasedli steadfast hunter of the white whale ; thi ahab that had gone to hi hammock , wa not the agent that so caus him to burst from it in horror again . the latter wa the etern , live principl or soul in him ; and in sleep , be for the time dissoci from the character mind , which at other time employ it for it outer vehicl or agent , it spontan sought escap from the scorch contigu of the frantic thing , of which , for the time , it wa no longer an integr . but as the mind doe not exist unless leagu with the soul , therefor it must have been that , in ahab ' s case , yield up all hi thought and fanci to hi one suprem purpos ; that purpos , by it own sheer inveteraci of will , forc itself against god and devil into a kind of self - assum , independ be of it own . nay , could grimli live and burn , while the common vital to which it wa conjoin , fled horror - stricken from the unbidden and unfath birth . therefor , the torment spirit that glare out of bodili eye , when what seem ahab rush from hi room , wa for the time but a vacat thing , a formless somnambulist be , a ray of live light , to be sure , but without an object to colour , and therefor a blank in itself . god help thee , old man , thi thought have creat a creatur in thee ; and he whose intens think thu make him a prometheu ; a vultur feed upon that heart for ever ; that vultur the veri creatur he creat . chapter 45 the affidavit . So far as what there may be of a narr in thi book ; and , inde , as indirectli touch one or two veri interest and curiou particular in the habit of sperm whale , the forego chapter , in it earlier part , is as import a one as will be found in thi volum ; but the lead matter of it requir to be still further and more familiarli enlarg upon , in order to be adequ understood , and moreov to take away ani incredul which a profound ignor of the entir subject may induc in some mind , as to the natur veriti of the main point of thi affair . I care not to perform thi part of my task method ; but shall be content to produc the desir impress by separ citat of item , practic or reliabl known to me as a whaleman ; and from these citat , I take it -- the conclus aim at will natur follow of itself . first : I have person known three instanc where a whale , after receiv a harpoon , ha effect a complet escap ; and , after an interv ( in one instanc of three year ) , ha been again struck by the same hand , and slain ; when the two iron , both mark by the same privat cypher , have been taken from the bodi . In the instanc where three year interven between the fling of the two harpoon ; and I think it may have been someth more than that ; the man who dart them happen , in the interv , to go in a trade ship on a voyag to africa , went ashor there , join a discoveri parti , and penetr far into the interior , where he travel for a period of nearli two year , often endang by serpent , savag , tiger , poison miasma , with all the other common peril incid to wander in the heart of unknown region . meanwhil , the whale he had struck must also have been on it travel ; no doubt it had thrice circumnavig the globe , brush with it flank all the coast of africa ; but to no purpos . thi man and thi whale again came togeth , and the one vanquish the other . I say I , myself , have known three instanc similar to thi ; that is in two of them I saw the whale struck ; and , upon the second attack , saw the two iron with the respect mark cut in them , afterward taken from the dead fish . In the three - year instanc , it so fell out that I wa in the boat both time , first and last , and the last time distinctli recognis a peculiar sort of huge mole under the whale ' s eye , which I had observ there three year previou . I say three year , but I am pretti sure it wa more than that . here are three instanc , then , which I person know the truth of ; but I have heard of mani other instanc from person whose verac in the matter there is no good ground to impeach . secondli : It is well known in the sperm whale fisheri , howev ignor the world ashor may be of it , that there have been sever memor histor instanc where a particular whale in the ocean ha been at distant time and place popularli cognis . whi such a whale becam thu mark wa not altogeth and origin owe to hi bodili peculiar as distinguish from other whale ; for howev peculiar in that respect ani chanc whale may be , they soon put an end to hi peculiar by kill him , and boil him down into a peculiarli valuabl oil . No : the reason wa thi : that from the fatal experi of the fisheri there hung a terribl prestig of peril about such a whale as there did about rinaldo rinaldini , insomuch that most fishermen were content to recognis him by mere touch their tarpaulin when he would be discov loung by them on the sea , without seek to cultiv a more intim acquaint . like some poor devil ashor that happen to know an irasc great man , they make distant unobtrus salut to him in the street , lest if they pursu the acquaint further , they might receiv a summari thump for their presumpt . but not onli did each of these famou whale enjoy great individu celebr -- nay , you may call it an ocean - wide renown ; not onli wa he famou in life and now is immort in forecastl stori after death , but he wa admit into all the right , privileg , and distinct of a name ; had as much a name inde as cambys or caesar . wa it not so , O timor tom ! thou fame leviathan , scar like an iceberg , who so long did ' st lurk in the orient strait of that name , whose spout wa oft seen from the palmi beach of ombay ? wa it not so , O new zealand jack ! thou terror of all cruiser that cross their wake in the vicin of the tattoo land ? wa it not so , O morquan ! king of japan , whose lofti jet they say at time assum the semblanc of a snow - white cross against the sky ? wa it not so , O don miguel ! thou chilian whale , mark like an old tortois with mystic hieroglyph upon the back ! In plain prose , here are four whale as well known to the student of cetacean histori as mariu or sylla to the classic scholar . but thi is not all . new zealand tom and don miguel , after at variou time creat great havoc among the boat of differ vessel , were final gone in quest of , systemat hunt out , chase and kill by valiant whale captain , who heav up their anchor with that express object as much in view , as in set out through the narragansett wood , captain butler of old had it in hi mind to captur that notori murder savag annawon , the headmost warrior of the indian king philip . I do not know where I can find a better place than just here , to make mention of one or two other thing , which to me seem import , as in print form establish in all respect the reason of the whole stori of the white whale , more especi the catastroph . for thi is one of those dishearten instanc where truth requir full as much bolster as error . So ignor are most landsmen of some of the plainest and most palpabl wonder of the world , that without some hint touch the plain fact , histor and otherwis , of the fisheri , they might scout at mobi dick as a monstrou fabl , or still wors and more detest , a hideou and intoler allegori . first : though most men have some vagu flit idea of the gener peril of the grand fisheri , yet they have noth like a fix , vivid concept of those peril , and the frequenc with which they recur . one reason perhap is , that not one in fifti of the actual disast and death by casualti in the fisheri , ever find a public record at home , howev transient and immedi forgotten that record . Do you suppos that that poor fellow there , who thi moment perhap caught by the whale - line off the coast of new guinea , is be carri down to the bottom of the sea by the sound leviathan -- do you suppos that that poor fellow ' s name will appear in the newspap obituari you will read to - morrow at your breakfast ? No : becaus the mail are veri irregular between here and new guinea . In fact , did you ever hear what might be call regular news direct or indirect from new guinea ? yet I tell you that upon one particular voyag which I made to the pacif , among mani other we spoke thirti differ ship , everi one of which had had a death by a whale , some of them more than one , and three that had each lost a boat ' s crew . for god ' s sake , be econom with your lamp and candl ! not a gallon you burn , but at least one drop of man ' s blood wa spill for it . secondli : peopl ashor have inde some indefinit idea that a whale is an enorm creatur of enorm power ; but I have ever found that when narrat to them some specif exampl of thi two - fold enorm , they have significantli compliment me upon my faceti ; when , I declar upon my soul , I had no more idea of be faceti than mose , when he wrote the histori of the plagu of egypt . but fortun the special point I here seek can be establish upon testimoni entir independ of my own . that point is thi : the sperm whale is in some case suffici power , know , and judici malici , as with direct aforethought to stave in , utterli destroy , and sink a larg ship ; and what is more , the sperm whale ha done it . first : In the year 1820 the ship essex , captain pollard , of nantucket , wa cruis in the pacif ocean . one day she saw spout , lower her boat , and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whale . ere long , sever of the whale were wound ; when , suddenli , a veri larg whale escap from the boat , issu from the shoal , and bore directli down upon the ship . dash hi forehead against her hull , he so stove her in , that in less than `` ten minut `` she settl down and fell over . not a surviv plank of her ha been seen sinc . after the severest exposur , part of the crew reach the land in their boat . be return home at last , captain pollard onc more sail for the pacif in command of anoth ship , but the god shipwreck him again upon unknown rock and breaker ; for the second time hi ship wa utterli lost , and forthwith forswear the sea , he ha never tempt it sinc . At thi day captain pollard is a resid of nantucket . I have seen owen chace , who wa chief mate of the essex at the time of the tragedi ; I have read hi plain and faith narr ; I have convers with hi son ; and all thi within a few mile of the scene of the catastroph . * * the follow are extract from chace ' s narr : `` everi fact seem to warrant me in conclud that it wa anyth but chanc which direct hi oper ; he made two sever attack upon the ship , at a short interv between them , both of which , accord to their direct , were calcul to do us the most injuri , by be made ahead , and therebi combin the speed of the two object for the shock ; to effect which , the exact manoeuvr which he made were necessari . hi aspect wa most horribl , and such as indic resent and furi . He came directli from the shoal which we had just befor enter , and in which we had struck three of hi companion , as if fire with reveng for their suffer . '' again : `` At all event , the whole circumst taken togeth , all happen befor my own eye , and produc , at the time , impress in my mind of decid , calcul mischief , on the part of the whale ( mani of which impress I can not now recal ) , induc me to be satisfi that I am correct in my opinion . '' here are hi reflect some time after quit the ship , dure a black night an open boat , when almost despair of reach ani hospit shore . `` the dark ocean and swell water were noth ; the fear of be swallow up by some dread tempest , or dash upon hidden rock , with all the other ordinari subject of fear contempl , seem scarc entitl to a moment ' s thought ; the dismal look wreck , and the horrid aspect and reveng OF the whale , wholli engross my reflect , until day again made it appear . '' In anoth place -- p . 45 , -- he speak of `` the mysteri and mortal attack OF the anim . '' secondli : the ship union , also of nantucket , wa in the year 1807 total lost off the azor by a similar onset , but the authent particular of thi catastroph I have never chanc to encount , though from the whale hunter I have now and then heard casual allus to it . thirdli : some eighteen or twenti year ago commodor J -- - , then command an american sloop - of - war of the first class , happen to be dine with a parti of whale captain , on board a nantucket ship in the harbor of oahu , sandwich island . convers turn upon whale , the commodor wa pleas to be sceptic touch the amaz strength ascrib to them by the profession gentlemen present . He peremptorili deni for exampl , that ani whale could so smite hi stout sloop - of - war as to caus her to leak so much as a thimbl . veri good ; but there is more come . some week after , the commodor set sail in thi impregn craft for valparaiso . but he wa stop on the way by a portli sperm whale , that beg a few moment ' confidenti busi with him . that busi consist in fetch the commodor ' s craft such a thwack , that with all hi pump go he made straight for the nearest port to heav down and repair . I am not superstiti , but I consid the commodor ' s interview with that whale as providenti . wa not saul of tarsu convert from unbelief by a similar fright ? I tell you , the sperm whale will stand no nonsens . I will now refer you to langsdorff ' s voyag for a littl circumst in point , peculiarli interest to the writer hereof . langsdorff , you must know by the way , wa attach to the russian admir krusenstern ' s famou discoveri expedit in the begin of the present centuri . captain langsdorff thu begin hi seventeenth chapter : `` By the thirteenth of may our ship wa readi to sail , and the next day we were out in the open sea , on our way to ochotsh . the weather wa veri clear and fine , but so intoler cold that we were oblig to keep on our fur cloth . for some day we had veri littl wind ; it wa not till the nineteenth that a brisk gale from the northwest sprang up . An uncommon larg whale , the bodi of which wa larger than the ship itself , lay almost at the surfac of the water , but wa not perceiv by ani one on board till the moment when the ship , which wa in full sail , wa almost upon him , so that it wa imposs to prevent it strike against him . We were thu place in the most immin danger , as thi gigant creatur , set up it back , rais the ship three feet at least out of the water . the mast reel , and the sail fell altogeth , while we who were below all sprang instantli upon the deck , conclud that we had struck upon some rock ; instead of thi we saw the monster sail off with the utmost graviti and solemn . captain D ' wolf appli immedi to the pump to examin whether or not the vessel had receiv ani damag from the shock , but we found that veri happili it had escap entir uninjur . '' now , the captain D ' wolf here allud to as command the ship in question , is a new england , who , after a long life of unusu adventur as a sea - captain , thi day resid in the villag of dorchest near boston . I have the honour of be a nephew of hi . I have particularli question him concern thi passag in langsdorff . He substanti everi word . the ship , howev , wa by no mean a larg one : a russian craft built on the siberian coast , and purchas by my uncl after barter away the vessel in which he sail from home . In that up and down manli book of old - fashion adventur , so full , too , of honest wonder -- the voyag of lionel wafer , one of ancient dampier ' s old chum -- I found a littl matter set down so like that just quot from langsdorff , that I can not forbear insert it here for a corrobor exampl , if such be need . lionel , it seem , wa on hi way to `` john ferdinando , '' as he call the modern juan fernand . `` In our way thither , '' he say , `` about four o ' clock in the morn , when we were about one hundr and fifti leagu from the main of america , our ship felt a terribl shock , which put our men in such constern that they could hardli tell where they were or what to think ; but everi one began to prepar for death . and , inde , the shock wa so sudden and violent , that we took it for grant the ship had struck against a rock ; but when the amaz wa a littl over , we cast the lead , and sound , but found no ground . .... the sudden of the shock made the gun leap in their carriag , and sever of the men were shaken out of their hammock . captain davi , who lay with hi head on a gun , wa thrown out of hi cabin ! '' lionel then goe on to imput the shock to an earthquak , and seem to substanti the imput by state that a great earthquak , somewher about that time , did actual do great mischief along the spanish land . but I should not much wonder if , in the dark of that earli hour of the morn , the shock wa after all caus by an unseen whale vertic bump the hull from beneath . I might proceed with sever more exampl , one way or anoth known to me , of the great power and malic at time of the sperm whale . In more than one instanc , he ha been known , not onli to chase the assail boat back to their ship , but to pursu the ship itself , and long withstand all the lanc hurl at him from it deck . the english ship pusi hall can tell a stori on that head ; and , as for hi strength , let me say , that there have been exampl where the line attach to a run sperm whale have , in a calm , been transfer to the ship , and secur there ; the whale tow her great hull through the water , as a hors walk off with a cart . again , it is veri often observ that , if the sperm whale , onc struck , is allow time to ralli , he then act , not so often with blind rage , as with wil , deliber design of destruct to hi pursuer ; nor is it without convey some eloqu indic of hi charact , that upon be attack he will frequent open hi mouth , and retain it in that dread expans for sever consecut minut . but I must be content with onli one more and a conclud illustr ; a remark and most signific one , by which you will not fail to see , that not onli is the most marvel event in thi book corrobor by plain fact of the present day , but that these marvel ( like all marvel ) are mere repetit of the age ; so that for the millionth time we say amen with solomon -- verili there is noth new under the sun . In the sixth christian centuri live procopiu , a christian magistr of constantinopl , in the day when justinian wa emperor and belisariu gener . As mani know , he wrote the histori of hi own time , a work everi way of uncommon valu . By the best author , he ha alway been consid a most trustworthi and unexagger historian , except in some one or two particular , not at all affect the matter present to be mention . now , in thi histori of hi , procopiu mention that , dure the term of hi prefectur at constantinopl , a great sea - monster wa captur in the neighbor proponti , or sea of marmora , after have destroy vessel at interv in those water for a period of more than fifti year . A fact thu set down in substanti histori can not easili be gainsaid . nor is there ani reason it should be . Of what precis speci thi sea - monster wa , is not mention . but as he destroy ship , as well as for other reason , he must have been a whale ; and I am strongli inclin to think a sperm whale . and I will tell you whi . for a long time I fanci that the sperm whale had been alway unknown in the mediterranean and the deep water connect with it . even now I am certain that those sea are not , and perhap never can be , in the present constitut of thing , a place for hi habitu gregari resort . but further investig have recent prove to me , that in modern time there have been isol instanc of the presenc of the sperm whale in the mediterranean . I am told , on good author , that on the barbari coast , a commodor davi of the british navi found the skeleton of a sperm whale . now , as a vessel of war readili pass through the dardanel , henc a sperm whale could , by the same rout , pass out of the mediterranean into the proponti . In the proponti , as far as I can learn , none of that peculiar substanc call brit is to be found , the aliment of the right whale . but I have everi reason to believ that the food of the sperm whale -- squid or cuttl - fish -- lurk at the bottom of that sea , becaus larg creatur , but by no mean the largest of that sort , have been found at it surfac . If , then , you properli put these statement togeth , and reason upon them a bit , you will clearli perceiv that , accord to all human reason , procopiu ' s sea - monster , that for half a centuri stove the ship of a roman emperor , must in all probabl have been a sperm whale . chapter 46 surmis . though , consum with the hot fire of hi purpos , ahab in all hi thought and action ever had in view the ultim captur of mobi dick ; though he seem readi to sacrific all mortal interest to that one passion ; nevertheless it may have been that he wa by natur and long habitu far too wed to a fieri whaleman ' s way , altogeth to abandon the collater prosecut of the voyag . Or at least if thi were otherwis , there were not want other motiv much more influenti with him . It would be refin too much , perhap , even consid hi monomania , to hint that hi vindict toward the white whale might have possibl extend itself in some degre to all sperm whale , and that the more monster he slew by so much the more he multipli the chanc that each subsequ encount whale would prove to be the hate one he hunt . but if such an hypothesi be inde exception , there were still addit consider which , though not so strictli accord with the wild of hi rule passion , yet were by no mean incap of sway him . To accomplish hi object ahab must use tool ; and of all tool use in the shadow of the moon , men are most apt to get out of order . He knew , for exampl , that howev magnet hi ascend in some respect wa over starbuck , yet that ascend did not cover the complet spiritu man ani more than mere corpor superior involv intellectu mastership ; for to the pure spiritu , the intellectu but stand in a sort of corpor relat . starbuck ' s bodi and starbuck ' s coerc will were ahab ' s , so long as ahab kept hi magnet at starbuck ' s brain ; still he knew that for all thi the chief mate , in hi soul , abhor hi captain ' s quest , and could he , would joy disintegr himself from it , or even frustrat it . It might be that a long interv would elaps ere the white whale wa seen . dure that long interv starbuck would ever be apt to fall into open relaps of rebellion against hi captain ' s leadership , unless some ordinari , prudenti , circumstanti influenc were brought to bear upon him . not onli that , but the subtl insan of ahab respect mobi dick wa noway more significantli manifest than in hi superl sens and shrewd in forese that , for the present , the hunt should in some way be strip of that strang imagin impious which natur invest it ; that the full terror of the voyag must be kept withdrawn into the obscur background ( for few men ' s courag is proof against protract medit unreliev by action ) ; that when they stood their long night watch , hi offic and men must have some nearer thing to think of than mobi dick . for howev eagerli and impetu the savag crew had hail the announc of hi quest ; yet all sailor of all sort are more or less caprici and unreli -- they live in the vari outer weather , and they inhal it fickl -- and when retain for ani object remot and blank in the pursuit , howev promissori of life and passion in the end , it is abov all thing requisit that temporari interest and employ should interven and hold them healthili suspend for the final dash . nor wa ahab unmind of anoth thing . In time of strong emot mankind disdain all base consider ; but such time are evanesc . the perman constitut condit of the manufactur man , thought ahab , is sordid . grant that the white whale fulli incit the heart of thi my savag crew , and play round their savag even breed a certain gener knight - errant in them , still , while for the love of it they give chase to mobi dick , they must also have food for their more common , daili appetit . for even the high lift and chivalr crusad of old time were not content to travers two thousand mile of land to fight for their holi sepulchr , without commit burglari , pick pocket , and gain other piou perquisit by the way . had they been strictli held to their one final and romant object -- that final and romant object , too mani would have turn from in disgust . I will not strip these men , thought ahab , of all hope of cash -- aye , cash . they may scorn cash now ; but let some month go by , and no perspect promis of it to them , and then thi same quiescent cash all at onc mutini in them , thi same cash would soon cashier ahab . nor wa there want still anoth precautionari motiv more relat to ahab person . have impuls , it is probabl , and perhap somewhat prematur reveal the prime but privat purpos of the pequod ' s voyag , ahab wa now entir consciou that , in so do , he had indirectli laid himself open to the unanswer charg of usurp ; and with perfect impun , both moral and legal , hi crew if so dispos , and to that end compet , could refus all further obedi to him , and even violent wrest from him the command . from even the bare hint imput of usurp , and the possibl consequ of such a suppress impress gain ground , ahab must of cours have been most anxiou to protect himself . that protect could onli consist in hi own predomin brain and heart and hand , back by a heed , close calcul attent to everi minut atmospher influenc which it wa possibl for hi crew to be subject to . for all these reason then , and other perhap too analyt to be verbal develop here , ahab plainli saw that he must still in a good degre continu true to the natur , nomin purpos of the pequod ' s voyag ; observ all customari usag ; and not onli that , but forc himself to evinc all hi well known passion interest in the gener pursuit of hi profess . Be all thi as it may , hi voic wa now often heard hail the three mast - head and admonish them to keep a bright look - out , and not omit report even a porpois . thi vigil wa not long without reward . chapter 47 the mat - maker . It wa a cloudi , sultri afternoon ; the seamen were lazili loung about the deck , or vacantli gaze over into the lead - colour water . queequeg and I were mildli employ weav what is call a sword - mat , for an addit lash to our boat . So still and subdu and yet somehow prelud wa all the scene , and such an incant of reveri lurk in the air , that each silent sailor seem resolv into hi own invis self . I wa the attend or page of queequeg , while busi at the mat . As I kept pass and repass the fill or woof of marlin between the long yarn of the warp , use my own hand for the shuttl , and as queequeg , stand sideway , ever and anon slid hi heavi oaken sword between the thread , and idli look off upon the water , carelessli and unthinkingli drove home everi yarn : I say so strang a dreami did there then reign all over the ship and all over the sea , onli broken by the intermit dull sound of the sword , that it seem as if thi were the loom of time , and I myself were a shuttl mechan weav and weav away at the fate . there lay the fix thread of the warp subject to but one singl , ever return , unchang vibrat , and that vibrat mere enough to admit of the crosswis interblend of other thread with it own . thi warp seem necess ; and here , thought I , with my own hand I pli my own shuttl and weav my own destini into these unalter thread . meantim , queequeg ' s impuls , indiffer sword , sometim hit the woof slantingli , or crookedli , or strongli , or weakli , as the case might be ; and by thi differ in the conclud blow produc a correspond contrast in the final aspect of the complet fabric ; thi savag ' s sword , thought I , which thu final shape and fashion both warp and woof ; thi easi , indiffer sword must be chanc -- aye , chanc , free will , and necess -- nowis incompat -- all interweavingli work togeth . the straight warp of necess , not to be swerv from it ultim cours -- it everi altern vibrat , inde , onli tend to that ; free will still free to pli her shuttl between given thread ; and chanc , though restrain in it play within the right line of necess , and sideway in it motion direct by free will , though thu prescrib to by both , chanc by turn rule either , and ha the last featur blow at event . thu we were weav and weav away when I start at a sound so strang , long drawn , and music wild and unearthli , that the ball of free will drop from my hand , and I stood gaze up at the cloud whenc that voic drop like a wing . high aloft in the cross - tree wa that mad gay - header , tashtego . hi bodi wa reach eagerli forward , hi hand stretch out like a wand , and at brief sudden interv he continu hi cri . To be sure the same sound wa that veri moment perhap be heard all over the sea , from hundr of whalemen ' s look - out perch as high in the air ; but from few of those lung could that accustom old cri have deriv such a marvel cadenc as from tashtego the indian ' s . As he stood hover over you half suspend in air , so wildli and eagerli peer toward the horizon , you would have thought him some prophet or seer behold the shadow of fate , and by those wild cri announc their come . `` there she blow ! there ! there ! there ! she blow ! she blow ! '' `` where - away ? '' `` On the lee - beam , about two mile off ! a school of them ! '' instantli all wa commot . the sperm whale blow as a clock tick , with the same undevi and reliabl uniform . and therebi whalemen distinguish thi fish from other tribe of hi genu . `` there go fluke ! '' wa now the cri from tashtego ; and the whale disappear . `` quick , steward ! '' cri ahab . `` time ! time ! '' dough - boy hurri below , glanc at the watch , and report the exact minut to ahab . the ship wa now kept away from the wind , and she went gentli roll befor it . tashtego report that the whale had gone down head to leeward , we confid look to see them again directli in advanc of our bow . for that singular craft at time evinc by the sperm whale when , sound with hi head in one direct , he nevertheless , while conceal beneath the surfac , mill round , and swiftli swim off in the opposit quarter -- thi deceit of hi could not now be in action ; for there wa no reason to suppos that the fish seen by tashtego had been in ani way alarm , or inde knew at all of our vicin . one of the men select for shipkeep -- that is , those not appoint to the boat , by thi time reliev the indian at the main - mast head . the sailor at the fore and mizzen had come down ; the line tub were fix in their place ; the crane were thrust out ; the mainyard wa back , and the three boat swung over the sea like three samphir basket over high cliff . outsid of the bulwark their eager crew with one hand clung to the rail , while one foot wa expectantli pois on the gunwal . So look the long line of man - of - war ' s men about to throw themselv on board an enemi ' s ship . but at thi critic instant a sudden exclam wa heard that took everi eye from the whale . with a start all glare at dark ahab , who wa surround by five duski phantom that seem fresh form out of air . chapter 48 the first lower . the phantom , for so they then seem , were flit on the other side of the deck , and , with a noiseless celer , were cast loos the tackl and band of the boat which swung there . thi boat had alway been deem one of the spare boat , though technic call the captain ' s , on account of it hang from the starboard quarter . the figur that now stood by it bow wa tall and swart , with one white tooth evilli protrud from it steel - like lip . A rumpl chines jacket of black cotton funer invest him , with wide black trowser of the same dark stuff . but strang crown thi ebon wa a glisten white plait turban , the live hair braid and coil round and round upon hi head . less swart in aspect , the companion of thi figur were of that vivid , tiger - yellow complexion peculiar to some of the aborigin nativ of the manilla ; -- a race notori for a certain diabol of subtilti , and by some honest white marin suppos to be the paid spi and secret confidenti agent on the water of the devil , their lord , whose count - room they suppos to be elsewher . while yet the wonder ship ' s compani were gaze upon these stranger , ahab cri out to the white - turban old man at their head , `` all readi there , fedallah ? '' `` readi , '' wa the half - hiss repli . `` lower away then ; d ' ye hear ? '' shout across the deck . `` lower away there , I say . '' such wa the thunder of hi voic , that spite of their amaz the men sprang over the rail ; the sheav whirl round in the block ; with a wallow , the three boat drop into the sea ; while , with a dexter , off - hand dare , unknown in ani other vocat , the sailor , goat - like , leap down the roll ship ' s side into the toss boat below . hardli had they pull out from under the ship ' s lee , when a fourth keel , come from the windward side , pull round under the stern , and show the five stranger row ahab , who , stand erect in the stern , loudli hail starbuck , stubb , and flask , to spread themselv wide , so as to cover a larg expans of water . but with all their eye again rivet upon the swart fedallah and hi crew , the inmat of the other boat obey not the command . `` captain ahab ? -- '' said starbuck . `` spread yourselv , '' cri ahab ; `` give way , all four boat . thou , flask , pull out more to leeward ! '' `` aye , aye , sir , '' cheerili cri littl king - post , sweep round hi great steer oar . `` lay back ! '' address hi crew . `` there ! -- there ! -- there again ! there she blow right ahead , boy ! -- lay back ! '' `` never heed yonder yellow boy , archi . '' `` Oh , I don ' t mind ' em , sir , '' said archi ; `` I knew it all befor now . didn ' t I hear ' em in the hold ? and didn ' t I tell cabaco here of it ? what say ye , cabaco ? they are stowaway , Mr . flask . '' `` pull , pull , my fine heart - aliv ; pull , my children ; pull , my littl one , '' drawlingli and soothingli sigh stubb to hi crew , some of whom still show sign of uneasi . `` whi don ' t you break your backbon , my boy ? what is it you stare at ? those chap in yonder boat ? tut ! they are onli five more hand come to help us -- never mind from where -- the more the merrier . pull , then , do pull ; never mind the brimston -- devil are good fellow enough . So , so ; there you are now ; that ' s the stroke for a thousand pound ; that ' s the stroke to sweep the stake ! hurrah for the gold cup of sperm oil , my hero ! three cheer , men -- all heart aliv ! easi , easi ; don ' t be in a hurri -- don ' t be in a hurri . whi don ' t you snap your oar , you rascal ? bite someth , you dog ! So , so , so , then : -- softli , softli ! that ' s it -- that ' s it ! long and strong . give way there , give way ! the devil fetch ye , ye ragamuffin rapscallion ; ye are all asleep . stop snore , ye sleeper , and pull . pull , will ye ? pull , can ' t ye ? pull , won ' t ye ? whi in the name of gudgeon and ginger - cake don ' t ye pull ? -- pull and break someth ! pull , and start your eye out ! here ! '' whip out the sharp knife from hi girdl ; `` everi mother ' s son of ye draw hi knife , and pull with the blade between hi teeth . that ' s it -- that ' s it . now ye do someth ; that look like it , my steel - bit . start her -- start her , my silver - spoon ! start her , marl - spike ! '' stubb ' s exordium to hi crew is given here at larg , becaus he had rather a peculiar way of talk to them in gener , and especi in inculc the religion of row . but you must not suppos from thi specimen of hi sermon that he ever flew into downright passion with hi congreg . not at all ; and therein consist hi chief peculiar . He would say the most terrif thing to hi crew , in a tone so strang compound of fun and furi , and the furi seem so calcul mere as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invoc without pull for dear life , and yet pull for the mere joke of the thing . besid he all the time look so easi and indol himself , so loungingli manag hi steer - oar , and so broadli gape -- open - mouth at time -- that the mere sight of such a yawn command , by sheer forc of contrast , act like a charm upon the crew . then again , stubb wa one of those odd sort of humorist , whose jolliti is sometim so curious ambigu , as to put all inferior on their guard in the matter of obey them . In obedi to a sign from ahab , starbuck wa now pull obliqu across stubb ' s bow ; and when for a minut or so the two boat were pretti near to each other , stubb hail the mate . `` Mr . starbuck ! larboard boat there , ahoy ! a word with ye , sir , if ye pleas ! '' `` halloa ! '' return starbuck , turn round not a singl inch as he spoke ; still earnestli but whisperingli urg hi crew ; hi face set like a flint from stubb ' s . `` what think ye of those yellow boy , sir ! `` smuggl on board , somehow , befor the ship sail . ( strong , strong , boy ! ) '' in a whisper to hi crew , then speak out loud again : `` A sad busi , Mr . stubb ! ( seeth her , seeth her , my lad ! ) but never mind , Mr . stubb , all for the best . let all your crew pull strong , come what will . ( spring , my men , spring ! ) there ' s hogshead of sperm ahead , Mr . stubb , and that ' s what ye came for . ( pull , my boy ! ) sperm , sperm ' s the play ! thi at least is duti ; duti and profit hand in hand . '' `` aye , aye , I thought as much , '' soliloqu stubb , when the boat diverg , `` as soon as I clapt eye on ' em , I thought so . aye , and that ' s what he went into the after hold for , so often , as dough - boy long suspect . they were hidden down there . the white whale ' s at the bottom of it . well , well , so be it ! can ' t be help ! all right ! give way , men ! It ain ' t the white whale to - day ! give way ! '' now the advent of these outlandish stranger at such a critic instant as the lower of the boat from the deck , thi had not unreason awaken a sort of superstiti amaz in some of the ship ' s compani ; but archi ' s fanci discoveri have some time previou got abroad among them , though inde not credit then , thi had in some small measur prepar them for the event . It took off the extrem edg of their wonder ; and so what with all thi and stubb ' s confid way of account for their appear , they were for the time freed from superstiti surmis ; though the affair still left abund room for all manner of wild conjectur as to dark ahab ' s precis agenc in the matter from the begin . for me , I silent recal the mysteri shadow I had seen creep on board the pequod dure the dim nantucket dawn , as well as the enigmat hint of the unaccount elijah . meantim , ahab , out of hear of hi offic , have side the furthest to windward , wa still rang ahead of the other boat ; a circumst bespeak how potent a crew wa pull him . those tiger yellow creatur of hi seem all steel and whalebon ; like five trip - hammer they rose and fell with regular stroke of strength , which period start the boat along the water like a horizont burst boiler out of a mississippi steamer . As for fedallah , who wa seen pull the harpoon oar , he had thrown asid hi black jacket , and display hi nake chest with the whole part of hi bodi abov the gunwal , clearli cut against the altern depress of the wateri horizon ; while at the other end of the boat ahab , with one arm , like a fencer ' s , thrown half backward into the air , as if to counterbal ani tendenc to trip ; ahab wa seen steadili manag hi steer oar as in a thousand boat lower ere the white whale had torn him . all at onc the outstretch arm gave a peculiar motion and then remain fix , while the boat ' s five oar were seen simultan peak . boat and crew sat motionless on the sea . instantli the three spread boat in the rear paus on their way . the whale had irregularli settl bodili down into the blue , thu give no distantli discern token of the movement , though from hi closer vicin ahab had observ it . `` everi man look out along hi oar ! '' cri starbuck . `` thou , queequeg , stand up ! '' nimbl spring up on the triangular rais box in the bow , the savag stood erect there , and with intens eager eye gaze off toward the spot where the chase had last been descri . likewis upon the extrem stern of the boat where it wa also triangularli platform level with the gunwal , starbuck himself wa seen coolli and adroitli balanc himself to the jerk toss of hi chip of a craft , and silent eye the vast blue eye of the sea . not veri far distant flask ' s boat wa also lie breathlessli still ; it command recklessli stand upon the top of the loggerhead , a stout sort of post root in the keel , and rise some two feet abov the level of the stern platform . It is use for catch turn with the whale line . it top is not more spaciou than the palm of a man ' s hand , and stand upon such a base as that , flask seem perch at the mast - head of some ship which had sunk to all but her truck . but littl king - post wa small and short , and at the same time littl king - post wa full of a larg and tall ambit , so that thi loggerhead stand - point of hi did by no mean satisfi king - post . `` I can ' t see three sea off ; tip us up an oar there , and let me on to that . '' upon thi , daggoo , with either hand upon the gunwal to steadi hi way , swiftli slid aft , and then erect himself volunt hi lofti shoulder for a pedest . `` good a mast - head as ani , sir . will you mount ? '' `` that I will , and thank ye veri much , my fine fellow ; onli I wish you fifti feet taller . '' whereupon plant hi feet firmli against two opposit plank of the boat , the gigant negro , stoop a littl , present hi flat palm to flask ' s foot , and then put flask ' s hand on hi hears - plume head and bid him spring as he himself should toss , with one dexter fling land the littl man high and dri on hi shoulder . and here wa flask now stand , daggoo with one lift arm furnish him with a breastband to lean against and steadi himself by . At ani time it is a strang sight to the tyro to see with what wondrou habitud of unconsci skill the whaleman will maintain an erect postur in hi boat , even when pitch about by the most riotous pervers and cross - run sea . still more strang to see him giddili perch upon the loggerhead itself , under such circumst . but the sight of littl flask mount upon gigant daggoo wa yet more curiou ; for sustain himself with a cool , indiffer , easi , unthought of , barbar majesti , the nobl negro to everi roll of the sea harmoni roll hi fine form . On hi broad back , flaxen - hair flask seem a snow - flake . the bearer look nobler than the rider . though truli vivaci , tumultu , ostentati littl flask would now and then stamp with impati ; but not one ad heav did he therebi give to the negro ' s lordli chest . So have I seen passion and vaniti stamp the live magnanim earth , but the earth did not alter her tide and her season for that . meanwhil stubb , the third mate , betray no such far - gaze solicitud . the whale might have made one of their regular sound , not a temporari dive from mere fright ; and if that were the case , stubb , as hi wont in such case , it seem , wa resolv to solac the languish interv with hi pipe . He withdrew it from hi hatband , where he alway wore it aslant like a feather . He load it , and ram home the load with hi thumb - end ; but hardli had he ignit hi match across the rough sandpap of hi hand , when tashtego , hi harpoon , whose eye had been set to windward like two fix star , suddenli drop like light from hi erect attitud to hi seat , cri out in a quick phrensi of hurri , `` down , down all , and give way ! -- there they are ! '' To a landsman , no whale , nor ani sign of a her , would have been visibl at that moment ; noth but a troubl bit of greenish white water , and thin scatter puff of vapour hover over it , and suffusingli blow off to leeward , like the confus scud from white roll billow . the air around suddenli vibrat and tingl , as it were , like the air over intens heat plate of iron . beneath thi atmospher wave and curl , and partial beneath a thin layer of water , also , the whale were swim . seen in advanc of all the other indic , the puff of vapour they spout , seem their forerun courier and detach fli outrid . all four boat were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubl water and air . but it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblend bubbl born down a rapid stream from the hill . `` pull , pull , my good boy , '' said starbuck , in the lowest possibl but intensest concentr whisper to hi men ; while the sharp fix glanc from hi eye dart straight ahead of the bow , almost seem as two visibl needl in two uner binnacl compass . He did not say much to hi crew , though , nor did hi crew say anyth to him . onli the silenc of the boat wa at interv startlingli pierc by one of hi peculiar whisper , now harsh with command , now soft with entreati . how differ the loud littl king - post . `` sing out and say someth , my hearti . roar and pull , my thunderbolt ! beach me , beach me on their black back , boy ; onli do that for me , and I ' ll sign over to you my martha ' s vineyard plantat , boy ; includ wife and children , boy . lay me on -- lay me on ! O lord , lord ! but I shall go stark , stare mad ! see ! see that white water ! '' and so shout , he pull hi hat from hi head , and stamp up and down on it ; then pick it up , flirt it far off upon the sea ; and final fell to rear and plung in the boat ' s stern like a craze colt from the prairi . `` look at that chap now , '' philosoph drawl stubb , who , with hi unlight short pipe , mechan retain between hi teeth , at a short distanc , follow after -- '' He ' s got fit , that flask ha . fit ? ye , give him fit -- that ' s the veri word -- pitch fit into ' em . merrili , merrili , heart - aliv . pud for supper , you know ; -- merri ' s the word . pull , babe -- pull , suckl -- pull , all . but what the devil are you hurri about ? softli , softli , and steadili , my men . onli pull , and keep pull ; noth more . crack all your backbon , and bite your knive in two -- that ' s all . take it easi -- whi don ' t ye take it easi , I say , and burst all your liver and lung ! '' but what it wa that inscrut ahab said to that tiger - yellow crew of hi -- these were word best omit here ; for you live under the bless light of the evangel land . onli the infidel shark in the audaci sea may give ear to such word , when , with tornado brow , and eye of red murder , and foam - glu lip , ahab leap after hi prey . meanwhil , all the boat tore on . the repeat specif allus of flask to `` that whale , '' as he call the fictiti monster which he declar to be incessantli tantal hi boat ' s bow with it tail -- these allus of hi were at time so vivid and life - like , that they would caus some one or two of hi men to snatch a fear look over the shoulder . but thi wa against all rule ; for the oarsmen must put out their eye , and ram a skewer through their neck ; usag pronounc that they must have no organ but ear , and no limb but arm , in these critic moment . It wa a sight full of quick wonder and awe ! the vast swell of the omnipot sea ; the surg , hollow roar they made , as they roll along the eight gunwal , like gigant bowl in a boundless bowl - green ; the brief suspend agoni of the boat , as it would tip for an instant on the knife - like edg of the sharper wave , that almost seem threaten to cut it in two ; the sudden profound dip into the wateri glen and hollow ; the keen spur and goad to gain the top of the opposit hill ; the headlong , sled - like slide down it other side ; -- all these , with the cri of the headsmen and harpoon , and the shudder gasp of the oarsmen , with the wondrou sight of the ivori pequod bear down upon her boat with outstretch sail , like a wild hen after her scream brood ; -- all thi wa thrill . not the raw recruit , march from the bosom of hi wife into the fever heat of hi first battl ; not the dead man ' s ghost encount the first unknown phantom in the other world ; -- neither of these can feel stranger and stronger emot than that man doe , who for the first time find himself pull into the charm , churn circl of the hunt sperm whale . the danc white water made by the chase wa now becom more and more visibl , owe to the increas dark of the dun cloud - shadow flung upon the sea . the jet of vapour no longer blend , but tilt everywher to right and left ; the whale seem separ their wake . the boat were pull more apart ; starbuck give chase to three whale run dead to leeward . our sail wa now set , and , with the still rise wind , we rush along ; the boat go with such mad through the water , that the lee oar could scarc be work rapidli enough to escap be torn from the row - lock . soon we were run through a suffus wide veil of mist ; neither ship nor boat to be seen . `` give way , men , '' whisper starbuck , draw still further aft the sheet of hi sail ; `` there is time to kill a fish yet befor the squall come . there ' s white water again ! -- close to ! spring ! '' soon after , two cri in quick success on each side of us denot that the other boat had got fast ; but hardli were they overheard , when with a lightn - like hurtl whisper starbuck said : `` stand up ! '' and queequeg , harpoon in hand , sprang to hi feet . though not one of the oarsmen wa then face the life and death peril so close to them ahead , yet with their eye on the intens counten of the mate in the stern of the boat , they knew that the immin instant had come ; they heard , too , an enorm wallow sound as of fifti eleph stir in their litter . meanwhil the boat wa still boom through the mist , the wave curl and hiss around us like the erect crest of enrag serpent . `` that ' s hi hump . there , there , give it to him ! '' whisper starbuck . A short rush sound leap out of the boat ; it wa the dart iron of queequeg . then all in one weld commot came an invis push from astern , while forward the boat seem strike on a ledg ; the sail collaps and explod ; a gush of scald vapour shot up near by ; someth roll and tumbl like an earthquak beneath us . the whole crew were half suffoc as they were toss helter - skelter into the white curdl cream of the squall . squall , whale , and harpoon had all blend togeth ; and the whale , mere graze by the iron , escap . though complet swamp , the boat wa nearli unharm . swim round it we pick up the float oar , and lash them across the gunwal , tumbl back to our place . there we sat up to our knee in the sea , the water cover everi rib and plank , so that to our downward gaze eye the suspend craft seem a coral boat grown up to us from the bottom of the ocean . the wind increas to a howl ; the wave dash their buckler togeth ; the whole squall roar , fork , and crackl around us like a white fire upon the prairi , in which , unconsum , we were burn ; immort in these jaw of death ! In vain we hail the other boat ; as well roar to the live coal down the chimney of a flame furnac as hail those boat in that storm . meanwhil the drive scud , rack , and mist , grew darker with the shadow of night ; no sign of the ship could be seen . the rise sea forbad all attempt to bale out the boat . the oar were useless as propel , perform now the offic of life - preserv . So , cut the lash of the waterproof match keg , after mani failur starbuck contriv to ignit the lamp in the lantern ; then stretch it on a waif pole , hand it to queequeg as the standard - bearer of thi forlorn hope . there , then , he sat , hold up that imbecil candl in the heart of that almighti forlorn . there , then , he sat , the sign and symbol of a man without faith , hopelessli hold up hope in the midst of despair . wet , drench through , and shiver cold , despair of ship or boat , we lift up our eye as the dawn came on . the mist still spread over the sea , the empti lantern lay crush in the bottom of the boat . suddenli queequeg start to hi feet , hollow hi hand to hi ear . We all heard a faint creak , as of rope and yard hitherto muffl by the storm . the sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mist were dimli part by a huge , vagu form . affright , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loom into view , bear right down upon us within a distanc of not much more than it length . float on the wave we saw the abandon boat , as for one instant it toss and gape beneath the ship ' s bow like a chip at the base of a cataract ; and then the vast hull roll over it , and it wa seen no more till it came up welter astern . again we swam for it , were dash against it by the sea , and were at last taken up and safe land on board . ere the squall came close to , the other boat had cut loos from their fish and return to the ship in good time . the ship had given us up , but wa still cruis , if hapli it might light upon some token of our perish , -- an oar or a lanc pole . chapter 49 the hyena . there are certain queer time and occas in thi strang mix affair we call life when a man take thi whole univers for a vast practic joke , though the wit thereof he but dimli discern , and more than suspect that the joke is at nobodi ' s expens but hi own . howev , noth dispirit , and noth seem worth while disput . He bolt down all event , all creed , and belief , and persuas , all hard thing visibl and invis , never mind how knobbi ; as an ostrich of potent digest gobbl down bullet and gun flint . and as for small difficulti and worri , prospect of sudden disast , peril of life and limb ; all these , and death itself , seem to him onli sli , good - natur hit , and jolli punch in the side bestow by the unseen and unaccount old joker . that odd sort of wayward mood I am speak of , come over a man onli in some time of extrem tribul ; it come in the veri midst of hi earnest , so that what just befor might have seem to him a thing most moment , now seem but a part of the gener joke . there is noth like the peril of whale to breed thi free and easi sort of genial , desperado philosophi ; and with it I now regard thi whole voyag of the pequod , and the great white whale it object . `` queequeg , '' said I , when they had drag me , the last man , to the deck , and I wa still shake myself in my jacket to fling off the water ; `` queequeg , my fine friend , doe thi sort of thing often happen ? '' without much emot , though soak through just like me , he gave me to understand that such thing did often happen . `` Mr . stubb , '' said I , turn to that worthi , who , button up in hi oil - jacket , wa now calmli smoke hi pipe in the rain ; `` Mr . stubb , I think I have heard you say that of all whalemen you ever met , our chief mate , Mr . starbuck , is by far the most care and prudent . I suppos then , that go plump on a fli whale with your sail set in a foggi squall is the height of a whaleman ' s discret ? '' `` certain . I ' ve lower for whale from a leak ship in a gale off cape horn . '' `` Mr . flask , '' said I , turn to littl king - post , who wa stand close by ; `` you are experienc in these thing , and I am not . will you tell me whether it is an unalter law in thi fisheri , Mr . flask , for an oarsman to break hi own back pull himself back - foremost into death ' s jaw ? '' `` can ' t you twist that smaller ? '' said flask . `` ye , that ' s the law . I should like to see a boat ' s crew back water up to a whale face foremost . Ha , ha ! the whale would give them squint for squint , mind that ! '' here then , from three imparti wit , I had a deliber statement of the entir case . consid , therefor , that squall and capsiz in the water and consequ bivouack on the deep , were matter of common occurr in thi kind of life ; consid that at the superl critic instant of go on to the whale I must resign my life into the hand of him who steer the boat -- oftentim a fellow who at that veri moment is in hi impetu upon the point of scuttl the craft with hi own frantic stamp ; consid that the particular disast to our own particular boat wa chiefli to be imput to starbuck ' s drive on to hi whale almost in the teeth of a squall , and consid that starbuck , notwithstand , wa famou for hi great heed in the fisheri ; consid that I belong to thi uncommonli prudent starbuck ' s boat ; and final consid in what a devil ' s chase I wa implic , touch the white whale : take all thing togeth , I say , I thought I might as well go below and make a rough draft of my will . `` queequeg , '' said I , `` come along , you shall be my lawyer , executor , and legate . '' It may seem strang that of all men sailor should be tinker at their last will and testament , but there are no peopl in the world more fond of that divers . thi wa the fourth time in my nautic life that I had done the same thing . after the ceremoni wa conclud upon the present occas , I felt all the easier ; a stone wa roll away from my heart . besid , all the day I should now live would be as good as the day that lazaru live after hi resurrect ; a supplementari clean gain of so mani month or week as the case might be . I surviv myself ; my death and burial were lock up in my chest . I look round me tranquilli and contentedli , like a quiet ghost with a clean conscienc sit insid the bar of a snug famili vault . now then , thought I , unconsci roll up the sleev of my frock , here goe for a cool , collect dive at death and destruct , and the devil fetch the hindmost . chapter 50 ahab ' s boat and crew . fedallah . `` who would have thought it , flask ! '' cri stubb ; `` if I had but one leg you would not catch me in a boat , unless mayb to stop the plug - hole with my timber toe . Oh ! he ' s a wonder old man ! '' `` I don ' t think it so strang , after all , on that account , '' said flask . `` If hi leg were off at the hip , now , it would be a differ thing . that would disabl him ; but he ha one knee , and good part of the other left , you know . '' `` I don ' t know that , my littl man ; I never yet saw him kneel . '' among whale - wise peopl it ha often been argu whether , consid the paramount import of hi life to the success of the voyag , it is right for a whale captain to jeopard that life in the activ peril of the chase . So tamerlan ' s soldier often argu with tear in their eye , whether that invalu life of hi ought to be carri into the thickest of the fight . but with ahab the question assum a modifi aspect . consid that with two leg man is but a hobbl wight in all time of danger ; consid that the pursuit of whale is alway under great and extraordinari difficulti ; that everi individu moment , inde , then compris a peril ; under these circumst is it wise for ani maim man to enter a whale - boat in the hunt ? As a gener thing , the joint - owner of the pequod must have plainli thought not . ahab well knew that although hi friend at home would think littl of hi enter a boat in certain compar harmless vicissitud of the chase , for the sake of be near the scene of action and give hi order in person , yet for captain ahab to have a boat actual apport to him as a regular headsman in the hunt -- abov all for captain ahab to be suppli with five extra men , as that same boat ' s crew , he well knew that such gener conceit never enter the head of the owner of the pequod . therefor he had not solicit a boat ' s crew from them , nor had he in ani way hint hi desir on that head . nevertheless he had taken privat measur of hi own touch all that matter . until cabaco ' s publish discoveri , the sailor had littl foreseen it , though to be sure when , after be a littl while out of port , all hand had conclud the customari busi of fit the whaleboat for servic ; when some time after thi ahab wa now and then found bestir himself in the matter of make thole - pin with hi own hand for what wa thought to be one of the spare boat , and even solicit cut the small wooden skewer , which when the line is run out are pin over the groov in the bow : when all thi wa observ in him , and particularli hi solicitud in have an extra coat of sheath in the bottom of the boat , as if to make it better withstand the point pressur of hi ivori limb ; and also the anxieti he evinc in exactli shape the thigh board , or clumsi cleat , as it is sometim call , the horizont piec in the boat ' s bow for brace the knee against in dart or stab at the whale ; when it wa observ how often he stood up in that boat with hi solitari knee fix in the semi - circular depress in the cleat , and with the carpent ' s chisel goug out a littl here and straighten it a littl there ; all these thing , I say , had awaken much interest and curios at the time . but almost everybodi suppos that thi particular prepar heed in ahab must onli be with a view to the ultim chase of mobi dick ; for he had alreadi reveal hi intent to hunt that mortal monster in person . but such a supposit did by no mean involv the remotest suspicion as to ani boat ' s crew be assign to that boat . now , with the subordin phantom , what wonder remain soon wane away ; for in a whaler wonder soon wane . besid , now and then such unaccount odd and end of strang nation come up from the unknown nook and ash - hole of the earth to man these float outlaw of whaler ; and the ship themselv often pick up such queer castaway creatur found toss about the open sea on plank , bit of wreck , oar , whaleboat , cano , blown - off japanes junk , and what not ; that beelzebub himself might climb up the side and step down into the cabin to chat with the captain , and it would not creat ani unsubdu excit in the forecastl . but be all thi as it may , certain it is that while the subordin phantom soon found their place among the crew , though still as it were somehow distinct from them , yet that hair - turban fedallah remain a muffl mysteri to the last . whenc he came in a mannerli world like thi , by what sort of unaccount tie he soon evinc himself to be link with ahab ' s peculiar fortun ; nay , so far as to have some sort of a half - hint influenc ; heaven know , but it might have been even author over him ; all thi none knew . but one can not sustain an indiffer air concern fedallah . He wa such a creatur as civil , domest peopl in the temper zone onli see in their dream , and that but dimli ; but the like of whom now and then glide among the unchang asiat commun , especi the orient isl to the east of the contin -- those insul , immemori , unalter countri , which even in these modern day still preserv much of the ghostli aborigin of earth ' s primal gener , when the memori of the first man wa a distinct recollect , and all men hi descend , unknow whenc he came , eye each other as real phantom , and ask of the sun and the moon whi they were creat and to what end ; when though , accord to genesi , the angel inde consort with the daughter of men , the devil also , add the uncanon rabbin , indulg in mundan amour . chapter 51 the spirit - spout . day , week pass , and under easi sail , the ivori pequod had slowli swept across four sever cruis - ground ; that off the azor ; off the cape de verd ; on the plate ( so call ) , be off the mouth of the rio de la plata ; and the carrol ground , an unstak , wateri local , southerli from St . helena . It wa while glide through these latter water that one seren and moonlight night , when all the wave roll by like scroll of silver ; and , by their soft , suffus seeth , made what seem a silveri silenc , not a solitud ; on such a silent night a silveri jet wa seen far in advanc of the white bubbl at the bow . lit up by the moon , it look celesti ; seem some plume and glitter god upris from the sea . fedallah first descri thi jet . for of these moonlight night , it wa hi wont to mount to the main - mast head , and stand a look - out there , with the same precis as if it had been day . and yet , though herd of whale were seen by night , not one whaleman in a hundr would ventur a lower for them . you may think with what emot , then , the seamen beheld thi old orient perch aloft at such unusu hour ; hi turban and the moon , companion in one sky . but when , after spend hi uniform interv there for sever success night without utter a singl sound ; when , after all thi silenc , hi unearthli voic wa heard announc that silveri , moon - lit jet , everi reclin marin start to hi feet as if some wing spirit had light in the rig , and hail the mortal crew . `` there she blow ! '' had the trump of judgment blown , they could not have quiver more ; yet still they felt no terror ; rather pleasur . for though it wa a most unwont hour , yet so impress wa the cri , and so deliri excit , that almost everi soul on board instinct desir a lower . walk the deck with quick , side - lung stride , ahab command the t ' gallant sail and royal to be set , and everi stunsail spread . the best man in the ship must take the helm . then , with everi mast - head man , the pile - up craft roll down befor the wind . the strang , upheav , lift tendenc of the taffrail breez fill the hollow of so mani sail , made the buoyant , hover deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rush along , as if two antagonist influenc were struggl in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingli to some horizont goal . and had you watch ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two differ thing were war . while hi one live leg made live echo along the deck , everi stroke of hi dead limb sound like a coffin - tap . On life and death thi old man walk . but though the ship so swiftli sped , and though from everi eye , like arrow , the eager glanc shot , yet the silveri jet wa no more seen that night . everi sailor swore he saw it onc , but not a second time . thi midnight - spout had almost grown a forgotten thing , when , some day after , lo ! at the same silent hour , it wa again announc : again it wa descri by all ; but upon make sail to overtak it , onc more it disappear as if it had never been . and so it serv us night after night , till no one heed it but to wonder at it . mysteri jet into the clear moonlight , or starlight , as the case might be ; disappear again for one whole day , or two day , or three ; and somehow seem at everi distinct repetit to be advanc still further and further in our van , thi solitari jet seem for ever allur us on . nor with the immemori superstit of their race , and in accord with the preternatur , as it seem , which in mani thing invest the pequod , were there want some of the seamen who swore that whenev and wherev descri ; at howev remot time , or in howev far apart latitud and longitud , that unnear spout wa cast by one self - same whale ; and that whale , mobi dick . for a time , there reign , too , a sens of peculiar dread at thi flit apparit , as if it were treacher beckon us on and on , in order that the monster might turn round upon us , and rend us at last in the remotest and most savag sea . these temporari apprehens , so vagu but so aw , deriv a wondrou potenc from the contrast seren of the weather , in which , beneath all it blue bland , some thought there lurk a devilish charm , as for day and day we voyag along , through sea so wearili , lonesom mild , that all space , in repugn to our veng errand , seem vacat itself of life befor our urn - like prow . but , at last , when turn to the eastward , the cape wind began howl around us , and we rose and fell upon the long , troubl sea that are there ; when the ivori - tusk pequod sharpli bow to the blast , and gore the dark wave in her mad , till , like shower of silver chip , the foam - flake flew over her bulwark ; then all thi desol vacuiti of life went away , but gave place to sight more dismal than befor . close to our bow , strang form in the water dart hither and thither befor us ; while thick in our rear flew the inscrut sea - raven . and everi morn , perch on our stay , row of these bird were seen ; and spite of our hoot , for a long time obstin clung to the hemp , as though they deem our ship some drift , uninhabit craft ; a thing appoint to desol , and therefor fit roost - place for their homeless selv . and heav and heav , still unrestingli heav the black sea , as if it vast tide were a conscienc ; and the great mundan soul were in anguish and remors for the long sin and suffer it had bred . cape of good hope , do they call ye ? rather cape tormentoto , as call of yore ; for long allur by the perfidi silenc that befor had attend us , we found ourselv launch into thi torment sea , where guilti be transform into those fowl and these fish , seem condemn to swim on everlastingli without ani haven in store , or beat that black air without ani horizon . but calm , snow - white , and unvari ; still direct it fountain of feather to the sky ; still beckon us on from befor , the solitari jet would at time be descri . dure all thi black of the element , ahab , though assum for the time the almost continu command of the drench and danger deck , manifest the gloomiest reserv ; and more seldom than ever address hi mate . In tempestu time like these , after everyth abov and aloft ha been secur , noth more can be done but passiv to await the issu of the gale . then captain and crew becom practic fatalist . So , with hi ivori leg insert into it accustom hole , and with one hand firmli grasp a shroud , ahab for hour and hour would stand gaze dead to windward , while an occasion squall of sleet or snow would all but congeal hi veri eyelash togeth . meantim , the crew driven from the forward part of the ship by the peril sea that burstingli broke over it bow , stood in a line along the bulwark in the waist ; and the better to guard against the leap wave , each man had slip himself into a sort of bowlin secur to the rail , in which he swung as in a loosen belt . few or no word were spoken ; and the silent ship , as if man by paint sailor in wax , day after day tore on through all the swift mad and glad of the demoniac wave . By night the same mute of human befor the shriek of the ocean prevail ; still in silenc the men swung in the bowlin ; still wordless ahab stood up to the blast . even when weari natur seem demand repos he would not seek that repos in hi hammock . never could starbuck forget the old man ' s aspect , when one night go down into the cabin to mark how the baromet stood , he saw him with close eye sit straight in hi floor - screw chair ; the rain and half - melt sleet of the storm from which he had some time befor emerg , still slowli drip from the unremov hat and coat . On the tabl besid him lay unrol one of those chart of tide and current which have previous been spoken of . hi lantern swung from hi tightli clench hand . though the bodi wa erect , the head wa thrown back so that the close eye were point toward the needl of the tell - tale that swung from a beam in the ceil . * * the cabin - compass is call the tell - tale , becaus without go to the compass at the helm , the captain , while below , can inform himself of the cours of the ship . terribl old man ! thought starbuck with a shudder , sleep in thi gale , still thou steadfastli eyest thi purpos . chapter 52 the albatross . south - eastward from the cape , off the distant crozett , a good cruis ground for right whalemen , a sail loom ahead , the goney ( albatross ) by name . As she slowli drew nigh , from my lofti perch at the fore - mast - head , I had a good view of that sight so remark to a tyro in the far ocean fisheri -- a whaler at sea , and long absent from home . As if the wave had been fuller , thi craft wa bleach like the skeleton of a strand walru . all down her side , thi spectral appear wa trace with long channel of redden rust , while all her spar and her rig were like the thick branch of tree fur over with hoar - frost . onli her lower sail were set . A wild sight it wa to see her long - beard look - out at those three mast - head . they seem clad in the skin of beast , so torn and bepatch the raiment that had surviv nearli four year of cruis . stand in iron hoop nail to the mast , they sway and swung over a fathomless sea ; and though , when the ship slowli glide close under our stern , we six men in the air came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leap from the mast - head of one ship to those of the other ; yet , those forlorn - look fishermen , mildli eye us as they pass , said not one word to our own look - out , while the quarter - deck hail wa be heard from below . `` ship ahoy ! have ye seen the white whale ? '' but as the strang captain , lean over the pallid bulwark , wa in the act of put hi trumpet to hi mouth , it somehow fell from hi hand into the sea ; and the wind now rise amain , he in vain strove to make himself heard without it . meantim hi ship wa still increas the distanc between . while in variou silent way the seamen of the pequod were evinc their observ of thi omin incid at the first mere mention of the white whale ' s name to anoth ship , ahab for a moment paus ; it almost seem as though he would have lower a boat to board the stranger , had not the threaten wind forbad . but take advantag of hi windward posit , he again seiz hi trumpet , and know by her aspect that the stranger vessel wa a nantucket and shortli bound home , he loudli hail -- '' ahoy there ! thi is the pequod , bound round the world ! tell them to address all futur letter to the pacif ocean ! and thi time three year , if I am not at home , tell them to address them to -- '' At that moment the two wake were fairli cross , and instantli , then , in accord with their singular way , shoal of small harmless fish , that for some day befor had been placidli swim by our side , dart away with what seem shudder fin , and rang themselv fore and aft with the stranger ' s flank . though in the cours of hi continu voyag ahab must often befor have notic a similar sight , yet , to ani monomaniac man , the veriest trifl caprici carri mean . `` swim away from me , do ye ? '' murmur ahab , gaze over into the water . there seem but littl in the word , but the tone convey more of deep helpless sad than the insan old man had ever befor evinc . but turn to the steersman , who thu far had been hold the ship in the wind to diminish her headway , he cri out in hi old lion voic , -- '' Up helm ! keep her off round the world ! '' round the world ! there is much in that sound to inspir proud feel ; but whereto doe all that circumnavig conduct ? onli through numberless peril to the veri point whenc we start , where those that we left behind secur , were all the time befor us . were thi world an endless plain , and by sail eastward we could for ever reach new distanc , and discov sight more sweet and strang than ani cyclad or island of king solomon , then there were promis in the voyag . but in pursuit of those far mysteri we dream of , or in torment chase of that demon phantom that , some time or other , swim befor all human heart ; while chase such over thi round globe , they either lead us on in barren maze or midway leav us whelm . chapter 53 the gam . the ostens reason whi ahab did not go on board of the whaler we had spoken wa thi : the wind and sea betoken storm . but even had thi not been the case , he would not after all , perhap , have board her -- judg by hi subsequ conduct on similar occas -- if so it had been that , by the process of hail , he had obtain a neg answer to the question he put . for , as it eventu turn out , he care not to consort , even for five minut , with ani stranger captain , except he could contribut some of that inform he so absorbingli sought . but all thi might remain inadequ estim , were not someth said here of the peculiar usag of whale - vessel when meet each other in foreign sea , and especi on a common cruis - ground . If two stranger cross the pine barren in new york state , or the equal desol salisburi plain in england ; if casual encount each other in such inhospit wild , these twain , for the life of them , can not well avoid a mutual salut ; and stop for a moment to interchang the news ; and , perhap , sit down for a while and rest in concert : then , how much more natur that upon the illimit pine barren and salisburi plain of the sea , two whale vessel descri each other at the end of the earth -- off lone fan ' s island , or the far away king ' s mill ; how much more natur , I say , that under such circumst these ship should not onli interchang hail , but come into still closer , more friendli and sociabl contact . and especi would thi seem to be a matter of cours , in the case of vessel own in one seaport , and whose captain , offic , and not a few of the men are person known to each other ; and consequ , have all sort of dear domest thing to talk about . for the long absent ship , the outward - bounder , perhap , ha letter on board ; at ani rate , she will be sure to let her have some paper of a date a year or two later than the last one on her blur and thumb - worn file . and in return for that courtesi , the outward - bound ship would receiv the latest whale intellig from the cruis - ground to which she may be destin , a thing of the utmost import to her . and in degre , all thi will hold true concern whale vessel cross each other ' s track on the cruis - ground itself , even though they are equal long absent from home . for one of them may have receiv a transfer of letter from some third , and now far remot vessel ; and some of those letter may be for the peopl of the ship she now meet . besid , they would exchang the whale news , and have an agreeabl chat . for not onli would they meet with all the sympathi of sailor , but likewis with all the peculiar congeni aris from a common pursuit and mutual share privat and peril . nor would differ of countri make ani veri essenti differ ; that is , so long as both parti speak one languag , as is the case with american and english . though , to be sure , from the small number of english whaler , such meet do not veri often occur , and when they do occur there is too apt to be a sort of shyness between them ; for your englishman is rather reserv , and your yanke , he doe not fanci that sort of thing in anybodi but himself . besid , the english whaler sometim affect a kind of metropolitan superior over the american whaler ; regard the long , lean nantucket , with hi nondescript provinci , as a sort of sea - peasant . but where thi superior in the english whalemen doe realli consist , it would be hard to say , see that the yanke in one day , collect , kill more whale than all the english , collect , in ten year . but thi is a harmless littl foibl in the english whale - hunter , which the nantucket doe not take much to heart ; probabl , becaus he know that he ha a few foibl himself . So , then , we see that of all ship separ sail the sea , the whaler have most reason to be sociabl -- and they are so . wherea , some merchant ship cross each other ' s wake in the mid - atlant , will oftentim pass on without so much as a singl word of recognit , mutual cut each other on the high sea , like a brace of dandi in broadway ; and all the time indulg , perhap , in finic critic upon each other ' s rig . As for men - of - war , when they chanc to meet at sea , they first go through such a string of silli bow and scrape , such a duck of ensign , that there doe not seem to be much right - down hearti good - will and brotherli love about it at all . As touch slave - ship meet , whi , they are in such a prodigi hurri , they run away from each other as soon as possibl . and as for pirat , when they chanc to cross each other ' s cross - bone , the first hail is -- '' how mani skull ? '' -- the same way that whaler hail -- '' how mani barrel ? '' and that question onc answer , pirat straightway steer apart , for they are infern villain on both side , and don ' t like to see overmuch of each other ' s villan like . but look at the godli , honest , unostentati , hospit , sociabl , free - and - easi whaler ! what doe the whaler do when she meet anoth whaler in ani sort of decent weather ? she ha a `` gam , '' a thing so utterli unknown to all other ship that they never heard of the name even ; and if by chanc they should hear of it , they onli grin at it , and repeat gamesom stuff about `` spouter `` and `` blubber - boiler , '' and such like pretti exclam . whi it is that all merchant - seamen , and also all pirat and man - of - war ' s men , and slave - ship sailor , cherish such a scorn feel toward whale - ship ; thi is a question it would be hard to answer . becaus , in the case of pirat , say , I should like to know whether that profess of their ha ani peculiar glori about it . It sometim end in uncommon elev , inde ; but onli at the gallow . and besid , when a man is elev in that odd fashion , he ha no proper foundat for hi superior altitud . henc , I conclud , that in boast himself to be high lift abov a whaleman , in that assert the pirat ha no solid basi to stand on . but what is a gam ? you might wear out your index - finger run up and down the column of dictionari , and never find the word . Dr . johnson never attain to that erudit ; noah webster ' s ark doe not hold it . nevertheless , thi same express word ha now for mani year been in constant use among some fifteen thousand true born yanke . certainli , it need a definit , and should be incorpor into the lexicon . with that view , let me learnedli defin it . gam . noun -- A social meet OF two ( OR more ) whaleship , gener ON A cruis - ground ; when , after exchang hail , they exchang visit BY boat ' crew ; the two captain remain , for the time , ON board OF one ship , and the two chief mate ON the other . there is anoth littl item about gam which must not be forgotten here . all profess have their own littl peculiar of detail ; so ha the whale fisheri . In a pirat , man - of - war , or slave ship , when the captain is row anywher in hi boat , he alway sit in the stern sheet on a comfort , sometim cushion seat there , and often steer himself with a pretti littl millin ' s tiller decor with gay cord and ribbon . but the whale - boat ha no seat astern , no sofa of that sort whatev , and no tiller at all . high time inde , if whale captain were wheel about the water on castor like gouti old aldermen in patent chair . and as for a tiller , the whale - boat never admit of ani such effeminaci ; and therefor as in gam a complet boat ' s crew must leav the ship , and henc as the boat steerer or harpoon is of the number , that subordin is the steersman upon the occas , and the captain , have no place to sit in , is pull off to hi visit all stand like a pine tree . and often you will notic that be consciou of the eye of the whole visibl world rest on him from the side of the two ship , thi stand captain is all aliv to the import of sustain hi digniti by maintain hi leg . nor is thi ani veri easi matter ; for in hi rear is the immens project steer oar hit him now and then in the small of hi back , the after - oar reciproc by rap hi knee in front . He is thu complet wedg befor and behind , and can onli expand himself sideway by settl down on hi stretch leg ; but a sudden , violent pitch of the boat will often go far to toppl him , becaus length of foundat is noth without correspond breadth . mere make a spread angl of two pole , and you can not stand them up . then , again , it would never do in plain sight of the world ' s rivet eye , it would never do , I say , for thi straddl captain to be seen steadi himself the slightest particl by catch hold of anyth with hi hand ; inde , as token of hi entir , buoyant self - command , he gener carri hi hand in hi trowser ' pocket ; but perhap be gener veri larg , heavi hand , he carri them there for ballast . nevertheless there have occur instanc , well authent one too , where the captain ha been known for an uncommonli critic moment or two , in a sudden squall say -- to seiz hold of the nearest oarsman ' s hair , and hold on there like grim death . chapter 54 the town - Ho ' s stori . ( AS told AT the golden inn ) the cape of good hope , and all the wateri region round about there , is much like some note four corner of a great highway , where you meet more travel than in ani other part . It wa not veri long after speak the goney that anoth homeward - bound whaleman , the town - Ho , * wa encount . she wa man almost wholli by polynesian . In the short gam that ensu she gave us strong news of mobi dick . To some the gener interest in the white whale wa now wildli heighten by a circumst of the town - Ho ' s stori , which seem obscur to involv with the whale a certain wondrou , invert visit of one of those so call judgment of god which at time are said to overtak some men . thi latter circumst , with it own particular accompani , form what may be call the secret part of the tragedi about to be narrat , never reach the ear of captain ahab or hi mate . for that secret part of the stori wa unknown to the captain of the town - Ho himself . It wa the privat properti of three confeder white seamen of that ship , one of whom , it seem , commun it to tashtego with romish injunct of secreci , but the follow night tashtego rambl in hi sleep , and reveal so much of it in that way , that when he wa waken he could not well withhold the rest . nevertheless , so potent an influenc did thi thing have on those seamen in the pequod who came to the full knowledg of it , and by such a strang delicaci , to call it so , were they govern in thi matter , that they kept the secret among themselv so that it never transpir abaft the pequod ' s main - mast . interweav in it proper place thi darker thread with the stori as publicli narrat on the ship , the whole of thi strang affair I now proceed to put on last record . * the ancient whale - cri upon first sight a whale from the mast - head , still use by whalemen in hunt the famou gallipago terrapin . for my humor ' s sake , I shall preserv the style in which I onc narrat it at lima , to a loung circl of my spanish friend , one saint ' s eve , smoke upon the thick - gilt tile piazza of the golden inn . Of those fine cavali , the young don , pedro and sebastian , were on the closer term with me ; and henc the interlud question they occasion put , and which are duli answer at the time . `` some two year prior to my first learn the event which I am about rehears to you , gentlemen , the town - Ho , sperm whaler of nantucket , wa cruis in your pacif here , not veri mani day ' sail eastward from the eav of thi good golden inn . she wa somewher to the northward of the line . one morn upon handl the pump , accord to daili usag , it wa observ that she made more water in her hold than common . they suppos a sword - fish had stab her , gentlemen . but the captain , have some unusu reason for believ that rare good luck await him in those latitud ; and therefor be veri avers to quit them , and the leak not be then consid at all danger , though , inde , they could not find it after search the hold as low down as wa possibl in rather heavi weather , the ship still continu her cruis , the marin work at the pump at wide and easi interv ; but no good luck came ; more day went by , and not onli wa the leak yet undiscov , but it sensibl increas . So much so , that now take some alarm , the captain , make all sail , stood away for the nearest harbor among the island , there to have hi hull hove out and repair . `` though no small passag wa befor her , yet , if the commonest chanc favour , he did not at all fear that hi ship would founder by the way , becaus hi pump were of the best , and be period reliev at them , those six - and - thirti men of hi could easili keep the ship free ; never mind if the leak should doubl on her . In truth , well nigh the whole of thi passag be attend by veri prosper breez , the town - Ho had all but certainli arriv in perfect safeti at her port without the occurr of the least fatal , had it not been for the brutal overbear of radney , the mate , a vineyard , and the bitterli provok vengeanc of steelkilt , a lakeman and desperado from buffalo . `` ' lakeman ! -- buffalo ! pray , what is a lakeman , and where is buffalo ? ' said don sebastian , rise in hi swing mat of grass . `` On the eastern shore of our lake eri , don ; but -- I crave your courtesi -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . now , gentlemen , in squar - sail brig and three - mast ship , well - nigh as larg and stout as ani that ever sail out of your old callao to far manilla ; thi lakeman , in the land - lock heart of our america , had yet been nurtur by all those agrarian freeboot impress popularli connect with the open ocean . for in their interflow aggreg , those grand fresh - water sea of our , -- eri , and ontario , and huron , and superior , and michigan , -- possess an ocean - like expans , with mani of the ocean ' s noblest trait ; with mani of it rim varieti of race and of clime . they contain round archipelago of romant isl , even as the polynesian water do ; in larg part , are shore by two great contrast nation , as the atlant is ; they furnish long maritim approach to our numer territori coloni from the east , dot all round their bank ; here and there are frown upon by batteri , and by the goat - like craggi gun of lofti mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunder of naval victori ; at interv , they yield their beach to wild barbarian , whose red paint face flash from out their peltri wigwam ; for leagu and leagu are flank by ancient and unent forest , where the gaunt pine stand like serri line of king in gothic genealog ; those same wood harbor wild afric beast of prey , and silken creatur whose export fur give robe to tartar emperor ; they mirror the pave capit of buffalo and cleveland , as well as winnebago villag ; they float alik the full - rig merchant ship , the arm cruiser of the state , the steamer , and the beech cano ; they are swept by borean and dismast blast as dire as ani that lash the salt wave ; they know what shipwreck are , for out of sight of land , howev inland , they have drown full mani a midnight ship with all it shriek crew . thu , gentlemen , though an inland , steelkilt wa wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtur ; as much of an audaci marin as ani . and for radney , though in hi infanc he may have laid him down on the lone nantucket beach , to nurs at hi matern sea ; though in after life he had long follow our auster atlant and your contempl pacif ; yet wa he quit as veng and full of social quarrel as the backwood seaman , fresh from the latitud of buck - horn handl bowi - knive . yet wa thi nantucket a man with some good - heart trait ; and thi lakeman , a marin , who though a sort of devil inde , might yet by inflex firm , onli temper by that common decenc of human recognit which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thu treat , thi steelkilt had long been retain harmless and docil . At all event , he had prove so thu far ; but radney wa doom and made mad , and steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear . `` It wa not more than a day or two at the furthest after point her prow for her island haven , that the town - Ho ' s leak seem again increas , but onli so as to requir an hour or more at the pump everi day . you must know that in a settl and civil ocean like our atlant , for exampl , some skipper think littl of pump their whole way across it ; though of a still , sleepi night , should the offic of the deck happen to forget hi duti in that respect , the probabl would be that he and hi shipmat would never again rememb it , on account of all hand gentli subsid to the bottom . nor in the solitari and savag sea far from you to the westward , gentlemen , is it altogeth unusu for ship to keep clang at their pump - handl in full choru even for a voyag of consider length ; that is , if it lie along a toler access coast , or if ani other reason retreat is afford them . It is onli when a leaki vessel is in some veri out of the way part of those water , some realli landless latitud , that her captain begin to feel a littl anxiou . `` much thi way had it been with the town - Ho ; so when her leak wa found gain onc more , there wa in truth some small concern manifest by sever of her compani ; especi by radney the mate . He command the upper sail to be well hoist , sheet home anew , and everi way expand to the breez . now thi radney , I suppos , wa as littl of a coward , and as littl inclin to ani sort of nervou apprehens touch hi own person as ani fearless , unthink creatur on land or on sea that you can conveni imagin , gentlemen . therefor when he betray thi solicitud about the safeti of the ship , some of the seamen declar that it wa onli on account of hi be a part owner in her . So when they were work that even at the pump , there wa on thi head no small gamesom slili go on among them , as they stood with their feet continu overflow by the rippl clear water ; clear as ani mountain spring , gentlemen -- that bubbl from the pump ran across the deck , and pour itself out in steadi spout at the lee scupper - hole . `` now , as you well know , it is not seldom the case in thi convent world of our -- wateri or otherwis ; that when a person place in command over hi fellow - men find one of them to be veri significantli hi superior in gener pride of manhood , straightway against that man he conceiv an unconquer dislik and bitter ; and if he have a chanc he will pull down and pulver that subaltern ' s tower , and make a littl heap of dust of it . Be thi conceit of mine as it may , gentlemen , at all event steelkilt wa a tall and nobl anim with a head like a roman , and a flow golden beard like the tassel hous of your last viceroy ' s snort charger ; and a brain , and a heart , and a soul in him , gentlemen , which had made steelkilt charlemagn , had he been born son to charlemagn ' s father . but radney , the mate , wa ugli as a mule ; yet as hardi , as stubborn , as malici . He did not love steelkilt , and steelkilt knew it . `` espi the mate draw near as he wa toil at the pump with the rest , the lakeman affect not to notic him , but unaw , went on with hi gay banter . `` ' aye , aye , my merri lad , it ' s a live leak thi ; hold a cannikin , one of ye , and let ' s have a tast . By the lord , it ' s worth bottl ! I tell ye what , men , old rad ' s invest must go for it ! he had best cut away hi part of the hull and tow it home . the fact is , boy , that sword - fish onli began the job ; he ' s come back again with a gang of ship - carpent , saw - fish , and file - fish , and what not ; and the whole poss of ' em are now hard at work cut and slash at the bottom ; make improv , I suppos . If old rad were here now , I ' d tell him to jump overboard and scatter ' em . they ' re play the devil with hi estat , I can tell him . but he ' s a simpl old soul , -- rad , and a beauti too . boy , they say the rest of hi properti is invest in look - glass . I wonder if he ' d give a poor devil like me the model of hi nose . ' `` ' damn your eye ! what ' s that pump stop for ? ' roar radney , pretend not to have heard the sailor ' talk . ' thunder away at it ! ' ' aye , aye , sir , ' said steelkilt , merri as a cricket . ' live , boy , live , now ! ' and with that the pump clang like fifti fire - engin ; the men toss their hat off to it , and ere long that peculiar gasp of the lung wa heard which denot the fullest tension of life ' s utmost energi . `` quit the pump at last , with the rest of hi band , the lakeman went forward all pant , and sat himself down on the windlass ; hi face fieri red , hi eye bloodshot , and wipe the profus sweat from hi brow . now what cozen fiend it wa , gentlemen , that possess radney to meddl with such a man in that corpor exasper state , I know not ; but so it happen . intoler stride along the deck , the mate command him to get a broom and sweep down the plank , and also a shovel , and remov some offens matter consequ upon allow a pig to run at larg . `` now , gentlemen , sweep a ship ' s deck at sea is a piec of household work which in all time but rage gale is regularli attend to everi even ; it ha been known to be done in the case of ship actual founder at the time . such , gentlemen , is the inflex of sea - usag and the instinct love of neat in seamen ; some of whom would not willingli drown without first wash their face . but in all vessel thi broom busi is the prescript provinc of the boy , if boy there be aboard . besid , it wa the stronger men in the town - Ho that had been divid into gang , take turn at the pump ; and be the most athlet seaman of them all , steelkilt had been regularli assign captain of one of the gang ; consequ he should have been freed from ani trivial busi not connect with truli nautic duti , such be the case with hi comrad . I mention all these particular so that you may understand exactli how thi affair stood between the two men . `` but there wa more than thi : the order about the shovel wa almost as plainli meant to sting and insult steelkilt , as though radney had spat in hi face . ani man who ha gone sailor in a whale - ship will understand thi ; and all thi and doubtless much more , the lakeman fulli comprehend when the mate utter hi command . but as he sat still for a moment , and as he steadfastli look into the mate ' s malign eye and perceiv the stack of powder - cask heap up in him and the slow - match silent burn along toward them ; as he instinct saw all thi , that strang forbear and unwilling to stir up the deeper passion in ani alreadi ire be -- a repugn most felt , when felt at all , by realli valiant men even when aggriev -- thi nameless phantom feel , gentlemen , stole over steelkilt . `` therefor , in hi ordinari tone , onli a littl broken by the bodili exhaust he wa temporarili in , he answer him say that sweep the deck wa not hi busi , and he would not do it . and then , without at all allud to the shovel , he point to three lad as the customari sweeper ; who , not be billet at the pump , had done littl or noth all day . To thi , radney repli with an oath , in a most domin and outrag manner uncondit reiter hi command ; meanwhil advanc upon the still seat lakeman , with an uplift cooper ' s club hammer which he had snatch from a cask near by . `` heat and irrit as he wa by hi spasmod toil at the pump , for all hi first nameless feel of forbear the sweat steelkilt could but ill brook thi bear in the mate ; but somehow still smother the conflagr within him , without speak he remain doggedli root to hi seat , till at last the incens radney shook the hammer within a few inch of hi face , furious command him to do hi bid . `` steelkilt rose , and slowli retreat round the windlass , steadili follow by the mate with hi menac hammer , deliber repeat hi intent not to obey . see , howev , that hi forbear had not the slightest effect , by an aw and unspeak intim with hi twist hand he warn off the foolish and infatu man ; but it wa to no purpos . and in thi way the two went onc slowli round the windlass ; when , resolv at last no longer to retreat , bethink him that he had now forborn as much as comport with hi humor , the lakeman paus on the hatch and thu spoke to the offic : `` ' Mr . radney , I will not obey you . take that hammer away , or look to yourself . ' but the predestin mate come still closer to him , where the lakeman stood fix , now shook the heavi hammer within an inch of hi teeth ; meanwhil repeat a string of insuffer maledict . retreat not the thousandth part of an inch ; stab him in the eye with the unflinch poniard of hi glanc , steelkilt , clench hi right hand behind him and creepingli draw it back , told hi persecutor that if the hammer but graze hi cheek he ( steelkilt ) would murder him . but , gentlemen , the fool had been brand for the slaughter by the god . immedi the hammer touch the cheek ; the next instant the lower jaw of the mate wa stove in hi head ; he fell on the hatch spout blood like a whale . `` ere the cri could go aft steelkilt wa shake one of the backstay lead far aloft to where two of hi comrad were stand their masthead . they were both canal . `` ' canal ! ' cri don pedro . ' We have seen mani whale - ship in our harbour , but never heard of your canal . pardon : who and what are they ? ' `` ' canal , don , are the boatmen belong to our grand eri canal . you must have heard of it . ' `` ' nay , senor ; hereabout in thi dull , warm , most lazi , and hereditari land , we know but littl of your vigor north . ' `` ' aye ? well then , don , refil my cup . your chicha ' s veri fine ; and ere proceed further I will tell ye what our canal are ; for such inform may throw side - light upon my stori . ' `` for three hundr and sixti mile , gentlemen , through the entir breadth of the state of new york ; through numer popul citi and most thrive villag ; through long , dismal , uninhabit swamp , and affluent , cultiv field , unrival for fertil ; by billiard - room and bar - room ; through the holi - of - holi of great forest ; on roman arch over indian river ; through sun and shade ; by happi heart or broken ; through all the wide contrast sceneri of those nobl mohawk counti ; and especi , by row of snow - white chapel , whose spire stand almost like mileston , flow one continu stream of venetianli corrupt and often lawless life . there ' s your true ashante , gentlemen ; there howl your pagan ; where you ever find them , next door to you ; under the long - flung shadow , and the snug patronis lee of church . for by some curiou fatal , as it is often note of your metropolitan freeboot that they ever encamp around the hall of justic , so sinner , gentlemen , most abound in holiest vicin . `` ' Is that a friar pass ? ' said don pedro , look downward into the crowd plazza , with humor concern . `` ' well for our northern friend , dame isabella ' s inquisit wane in lima , ' laugh don sebastian . ' proce , senor . ' `` ' A moment ! pardon ! ' cri anoth of the compani . ' In the name of all us limees , I but desir to express to you , sir sailor , that we have by no mean overlook your delicaci in not substitut present lima for distant venic in your corrupt comparison . Oh ! do not bow and look surpris ; you know the proverb all along thi coast -- '' corrupt as lima . '' It but bear out your say , too ; church more plenti than billiard - tabl , and for ever open -- and `` corrupt as lima . '' So , too , venic ; I have been there ; the holi citi of the bless evangelist , St . mark ! -- St . domin , purg it ! your cup ! thank : here I refil ; now , you pour out again . ' `` freeli depict in hi own vocat , gentlemen , the canal would make a fine dramat hero , so abundantli and picturesqu wick is he . like mark antoni , for day and day along hi green - turf , floweri nile , he indol float , openli toy with hi red - cheek cleopatra , ripen hi apricot thigh upon the sunni deck . but ashor , all thi effeminaci is dash . the brigandish guis which the canal so proudli sport ; hi slouch and gaili - ribbon hat betoken hi grand featur . A terror to the smile innoc of the villag through which he float ; hi swart visag and bold swagger are not unshun in citi . onc a vagabond on hi own canal , I have receiv good turn from one of these canal ; I thank him heartili ; would fain be not ungrat ; but it is often one of the prime redeem qualiti of your man of violenc , that at time he ha as stiff an arm to back a poor stranger in a strait , as to plunder a wealthi one . In sum , gentlemen , what the wild of thi canal life is , is emphat evinc by thi ; that our wild whale - fisheri contain so mani of it most finish graduat , and that scarc ani race of mankind , except sydney men , are so much distrust by our whale captain . nor doe it at all diminish the curious of thi matter , that to mani thousand of our rural boy and young men born along it line , the probationari life of the grand canal furnish the sole transit between quietli reap in a christian corn - field , and recklessli plough the water of the most barbar sea . `` ' I see ! I see ! ' impetu exclaim don pedro , spill hi chicha upon hi silveri ruffl . ' No need to travel ! the world ' s one lima . I had thought , now , that at your temper north the gener were cold and holi as the hill . -- but the stori . ' `` I left off , gentlemen , where the lakeman shook the backstay . hardli had he done so , when he wa surround by the three junior mate and the four harpoon , who all crowd him to the deck . but slide down the rope like bale comet , the two canal rush into the uproar , and sought to drag their man out of it toward the forecastl . other of the sailor join with them in thi attempt , and a twist turmoil ensu ; while stand out of harm ' s way , the valiant captain danc up and down with a whale - pike , call upon hi offic to manhandl that atroci scoundrel , and smoke him along to the quarter - deck . At interv , he ran close up to the revolv border of the confus , and pri into the heart of it with hi pike , sought to prick out the object of hi resent . but steelkilt and hi desperado were too much for them all ; they succeed in gain the forecastl deck , where , hastili slew about three or four larg cask in a line with the windlass , these sea - parisian entrench themselv behind the barricad . `` ' come out of that , ye pirat ! ' roar the captain , now menac them with a pistol in each hand , just brought to him by the steward . ' come out of that , ye cut - throat ! ' `` steelkilt leap on the barricad , and stride up and down there , defi the worst the pistol could do ; but gave the captain to understand distinctli , that hi ( steelkilt ' s ) death would be the signal for a murder mutini on the part of all hand . fear in hi heart lest thi might prove but too true , the captain a littl desist , but still command the insurg instantli to return to their duti . `` ' will you promis not to touch us , if we do ? ' demand their ringlead . `` ' turn to ! turn to ! -- I make no promis ; -- to your duti ! Do you want to sink the ship , by knock off at a time like thi ? turn to ! ' and he onc more rais a pistol . `` ' sink the ship ? ' cri steelkilt . ' aye , let her sink . not a man of us turn to , unless you swear not to rais a rope - yarn against us . what say ye , men ? ' turn to hi comrad . A fierc cheer wa their respons . `` the lakeman now patrol the barricad , all the while keep hi eye on the captain , and jerk out such sentenc as these : -- ' It ' s not our fault ; we didn ' t want it ; I told him to take hi hammer away ; it wa boy ' s busi ; he might have known me befor thi ; I told him not to prick the buffalo ; I believ I have broken a finger here against hi curs jaw ; ain ' t those minc knive down in the forecastl there , men ? look to those handspik , my hearti . captain , by god , look to yourself ; say the word ; don ' t be a fool ; forget it all ; we are readi to turn to ; treat us decent , and we ' re your men ; but we won ' t be flog . ' `` ' turn to ! I make no promis , turn to , I say ! ' `` ' look ye , now , ' cri the lakeman , fling out hi arm toward him , ' there are a few of us here ( and I am one of them ) who have ship for the cruis , d ' ye see ; now as you well know , sir , we can claim our discharg as soon as the anchor is down ; so we don ' t want a row ; it ' s not our interest ; we want to be peaceabl ; we are readi to work , but we won ' t be flog . ' `` ' turn to ! ' roar the captain . `` steelkilt glanc round him a moment , and then said : -- ' I tell you what it is now , captain , rather than kill ye , and be hung for such a shabbi rascal , we won ' t lift a hand against ye unless ye attack us ; but till you say the word about not flog us , we don ' t do a hand ' s turn . ' `` ' down into the forecastl then , down with ye , I ' ll keep ye there till ye ' re sick of it . down ye go . ' `` ' shall we ? ' cri the ringlead to hi men . most of them were against it ; but at length , in obedi to steelkilt , they preced him down into their dark den , growlingli disappear , like bear into a cave . `` As the lakeman ' s bare head wa just level with the plank , the captain and hi poss leap the barricad , and rapidli draw over the slide of the scuttl , plant their group of hand upon it , and loudli call for the steward to bring the heavi brass padlock belong to the companionway . then open the slide a littl , the captain whisper someth down the crack , close it , and turn the key upon them -- ten in number -- leav on deck some twenti or more , who thu far had remain neutral . `` all night a wide - awak watch wa kept by all the offic , forward and aft , especi about the forecastl scuttl and fore hatchway ; at which last place it wa fear the insurg might emerg , after break through the bulkhead below . but the hour of dark pass in peac ; the men who still remain at their duti toil hard at the pump , whose clink and clank at interv through the dreari night dismal resound through the ship . `` At sunris the captain went forward , and knock on the deck , summon the prison to work ; but with a yell they refus . water wa then lower down to them , and a coupl of hand of biscuit were toss after it ; when again turn the key upon them and pocket it , the captain return to the quarter - deck . twice everi day for three day thi wa repeat ; but on the fourth morn a confus wrangl , and then a scuffl wa heard , as the customari summon wa deliv ; and suddenli four men burst up from the forecastl , say they were readi to turn to . the fetid close of the air , and a famish diet , unit perhap to some fear of ultim retribut , had constrain them to surrend at discret . embolden by thi , the captain reiter hi demand to the rest , but steelkilt shout up to him a terrif hint to stop hi babbl and betak himself where he belong . On the fifth morn three other of the mutin bolt up into the air from the desper arm below that sought to restrain them . onli three were left . `` ' better turn to , now ? ' said the captain with a heartless jeer . `` ' shut us up again , will ye ! ' cri steelkilt . `` ' Oh certainli , ' the captain , and the key click . `` It wa at thi point , gentlemen , that enrag by the defect of seven of hi former associ , and stung by the mock voic that had last hail him , and madden by hi long entomb in a place as black as the bowel of despair ; it wa then that steelkilt propos to the two canal , thu far appar of one mind with him , to burst out of their hole at the next summon of the garrison ; and arm with their keen minc knive ( long , crescent , heavi implement with a handl at each end ) run amuck from the bowsprit to the taffrail ; and if by ani devilish of desper possibl , seiz the ship . for himself , he would do thi , he said , whether they join him or not . that wa the last night he should spend in that den . but the scheme met with no opposit on the part of the other two ; they swore they were readi for that , or for ani other mad thing , for anyth in short but a surrend . and what wa more , they each insist upon be the first man on deck , when the time to make the rush should come . but to thi their leader as fierc object , reserv that prioriti for himself ; particularli as hi two comrad would not yield , the one to the other , in the matter ; and both of them could not be first , for the ladder would but admit one man at a time . and here , gentlemen , the foul play of these miscreant must come out . `` upon hear the frantic project of their leader , each in hi own separ soul had suddenli light , it would seem , upon the same piec of treacheri , name : to be foremost in break out , in order to be the first of the three , though the last of the ten , to surrend ; and therebi secur whatev small chanc of pardon such conduct might merit . but when steelkilt made known hi determin still to lead them to the last , they in some way , by some subtl chemistri of villani , mix their befor secret treacheri togeth ; and when their leader fell into a doze , verbal open their soul to each other in three sentenc ; and bound the sleeper with cord , and gag him with cord ; and shriek out for the captain at midnight . `` think murder at hand , and smell in the dark for the blood , he and all hi arm mate and harpoon rush for the forecastl . In a few minut the scuttl wa open , and , bound hand and foot , the still struggl ringlead wa shove up into the air by hi perfidi alli , who at onc claim the honour of secur a man who had been fulli ripe for murder . but all these were collar , and drag along the deck like dead cattl ; and , side by side , were seiz up into the mizzen rig , like three quarter of meat , and there they hung till morn . ' damn ye , ' cri the captain , pace to and fro befor them , ' the vultur would not touch ye , ye villain ! ' `` At sunris he summon all hand ; and separ those who had rebel from those who had taken no part in the mutini , he told the former that he had a good mind to flog them all round -- thought , upon the whole , he would do so -- he ought to -- justic demand it ; but for the present , consid their time surrend , he would let them go with a reprimand , which he accordingli administ in the vernacular . `` ' but as for you , ye carrion rogu , ' turn to the three men in the rig -- ' for you , I mean to minc ye up for the tri - pot ; ' and , seiz a rope , he appli it with all hi might to the back of the two traitor , till they yell no more , but lifelessli hung their head sideway , as the two crucifi thiev are drawn . `` ' My wrist is sprain with ye ! ' he cri , at last ; ' but there is still rope enough left for you , my fine bantam , that wouldn ' t give up . take that gag from hi mouth , and let us hear what he can say for himself . ' `` for a moment the exhaust mutin made a tremul motion of hi cramp jaw , and then pain twist round hi head , said in a sort of hiss , ' what I say is thi -- and mind it well -- if you flog me , I murder you ! ' `` ' say ye so ? then see how ye frighten me ' -- and the captain drew off with the rope to strike . `` ' best not , ' hiss the lakeman . `` ' but I must , ' -- and the rope wa onc more drawn back for the stroke . `` steelkilt here hiss out someth , inaud to all but the captain ; who , to the amaz of all hand , start back , pace the deck rapidli two or three time , and then suddenli throw down hi rope , said , ' I won ' t do it -- let him go -- cut him down : d ' ye hear ? ' but as the junior mate were hurri to execut the order , a pale man , with a bandag head , arrest them -- radney the chief mate . ever sinc the blow , he had lain in hi berth ; but that morn , hear the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thu far had watch the whole scene . such wa the state of hi mouth , that he could hardli speak ; but mumbl someth about hi be will and abl to do what the captain dare not attempt , he snatch the rope and advanc to hi pinion foe . `` ' you are a coward ! ' hiss the lakeman . `` ' So I am , but take that . ' the mate wa in the veri act of strike , when anoth hiss stay hi uplift arm . He paus : and then paus no more , made good hi word , spite of steelkilt ' s threat , whatev that might have been . the three men were then cut down , all hand were turn to , and , sullenli work by the moodi seamen , the iron pump clang as befor . `` just after dark that day , when one watch had retir below , a clamor wa heard in the forecastl ; and the two trembl traitor run up , besieg the cabin door , say they durst not consort with the crew . entreati , cuff , and kick could not drive them back , so at their own instanc they were put down in the ship ' s run for salvat . still , no sign of mutini reappear among the rest . On the contrari , it seem , that mainli at steelkilt ' s instig , they had resolv to maintain the strictest peac , obey all order to the last , and , when the ship reach port , desert her in a bodi . but in order to insur the speediest end to the voyag , they all agre to anoth thing -- name , not to sing out for whale , in case ani should be discov . for , spite of her leak , and spite of all her other peril , the town - Ho still maintain her mast - head , and her captain wa just as will to lower for a fish that moment , as on the day hi craft first struck the cruis ground ; and radney the mate wa quit as readi to chang hi berth for a boat , and with hi bandag mouth seek to gag in death the vital jaw of the whale . `` but though the lakeman had induc the seamen to adopt thi sort of passiv in their conduct , he kept hi own counsel ( at least till all wa over ) concern hi own proper and privat reveng upon the man who had stung him in the ventricl of hi heart . He wa in radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatu man sought to run more than half way to meet hi doom , after the scene at the rig , he insist , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resum the head of hi watch at night . upon thi , and one or two other circumst , steelkilt systemat built the plan of hi reveng . `` dure the night , radney had an unseamanlik way of sit on the bulwark of the quarter - deck , and lean hi arm upon the gunwal of the boat which wa hoist up there , a littl abov the ship ' s side . In thi attitud , it wa well known , he sometim doze . there wa a consider vacanc between the boat and the ship , and down between thi wa the sea . steelkilt calcul hi time , and found that hi next trick at the helm would come round at two o ' clock , in the morn of the third day from that in which he had been betray . At hi leisur , he employ the interv in braid someth veri care in hi watch below . `` ' what are you make there ? ' said a shipmat . `` ' what do you think ? what doe it look like ? ' `` ' like a lanyard for your bag ; but it ' s an odd one , seem to me . ' ' ye , rather oddish , ' said the lakeman , hold it at arm ' s length befor him ; ' but I think it will answer . shipmat , I haven ' t enough twine , -- have you ani ? ' `` but there wa none in the forecastl . `` ' then I must get some from old rad ; ' and he rose to go aft . `` ' you don ' t mean to go a beg to him ! ' said a sailor . `` ' whi not ? Do you think he won ' t do me a turn , when it ' s to help himself in the end , shipmat ? ' and go to the mate , he look at him quietli , and ask him for some twine to mend hi hammock . It wa given him -- neither twine nor lanyard were seen again ; but the next night an iron ball , close net , partli roll from the pocket of the lakeman ' s monkey jacket , as he wa tuck the coat into hi hammock for a pillow . twenti - four hour after , hi trick at the silent helm -- nigh to the man who wa apt to doze over the grave alway readi dug to the seaman ' s hand -- that fatal hour wa then to come ; and in the fore - ordain soul of steelkilt , the mate wa alreadi stark and stretch as a corps , with hi forehead crush in . `` but , gentlemen , a fool save the would - be murder from the bloodi deed he had plan . yet complet reveng he had , and without be the aveng . for by a mysteri fatal , heaven itself seem to step in to take out of hi hand into it own the damn thing he would have done . `` It wa just between daybreak and sunris of the morn of the second day , when they were wash down the deck , that a stupid teneriff man , draw water in the main - chain , all at onc shout out , ' there she roll ! there she roll ! ' jesu , what a whale ! It wa mobi dick . `` ' mobi dick ! ' cri don sebastian ; ' St . domin ! sir sailor , but do whale have christen ? whom call you mobi dick ? ' `` ' A veri white , and famou , and most deadli immort monster , don ; -- but that would be too long a stori . ' `` ' how ? how ? ' cri all the young spaniard , crowd . `` ' nay , don , don -- nay , nay ! I can not rehears that now . let me get more into the air , sir . ' `` ' the chicha ! the chicha ! ' cri don pedro ; ' our vigor friend look faint ; -- fill up hi empti glass ! ' `` No need , gentlemen ; one moment , and I proceed . -- now , gentlemen , so suddenli perceiv the snowi whale within fifti yard of the ship -- forget of the compact among the crew -- in the excit of the moment , the teneriff man had instinct and involuntarili lift hi voic for the monster , though for some littl time past it had been plainli beheld from the three sullen mast - head . all wa now a phrensi . ' the white whale -- the white whale ! ' wa the cri from captain , mate , and harpoon , who , undet by fear rumour , were all anxiou to captur so famou and preciou a fish ; while the dog crew eye askanc , and with curs , the appal beauti of the vast milki mass , that lit up by a horizont spangl sun , shift and glisten like a live opal in the blue morn sea . gentlemen , a strang fatal pervad the whole career of these event , as if verili map out befor the world itself wa chart . the mutin wa the bowsman of the mate , and when fast to a fish , it wa hi duti to sit next him , while radney stood up with hi lanc in the prow , and haul in or slacken the line , at the word of command . moreov , when the four boat were lower , the mate ' s got the start ; and none howl more fierc with delight than did steelkilt , as he strain at hi oar . after a stiff pull , their harpoon got fast , and , spear in hand , radney sprang to the bow . He wa alway a furiou man , it seem , in a boat . and now hi bandag cri wa , to beach him on the whale ' s topmost back . noth loath , hi bowsman haul him up and up , through a blind foam that blent two white togeth ; till of a sudden the boat struck as against a sunken ledg , and keel over , spill out the stand mate . that instant , as he fell on the whale ' s slipperi back , the boat right , and wa dash asid by the swell , while radney wa toss over into the sea , on the other flank of the whale . He struck out through the spray , and , for an instant , wa dimli seen through that veil , wildli seek to remov himself from the eye of mobi dick . but the whale rush round in a sudden maelstrom ; seiz the swimmer between hi jaw ; and rear high up with him , plung headlong again , and went down . `` meantim , at the first tap of the boat ' s bottom , the lakeman had slacken the line , so as to drop astern from the whirlpool ; calmli look on , he thought hi own thought . but a sudden , terrif , downward jerk of the boat , quickli brought hi knife to the line . He cut it ; and the whale wa free . but , at some distanc , mobi dick rose again , with some tatter of radney ' s red woollen shirt , caught in the teeth that had destroy him . all four boat gave chase again ; but the whale elud them , and final wholli disappear . `` In good time , the town - Ho reach her port -- a savag , solitari place -- where no civil creatur resid . there , head by the lakeman , all but five or six of the foremastmen deliber desert among the palm ; eventu , as it turn out , seiz a larg doubl war - cano of the savag , and set sail for some other harbor . `` the ship ' s compani be reduc to but a hand , the captain call upon the island to assist him in the labori busi of heav down the ship to stop the leak . but to such unrest vigil over their danger alli wa thi small band of white necessit , both by night and by day , and so extrem wa the hard work they underw , that upon the vessel be readi again for sea , they were in such a weaken condit that the captain durst not put off with them in so heavi a vessel . after take counsel with hi offic , he anchor the ship as far off shore as possibl ; load and ran out hi two cannon from the bow ; stack hi musket on the poop ; and warn the island not to approach the ship at their peril , took one man with him , and set the sail of hi best whale - boat , steer straight befor the wind for tahiti , five hundr mile distant , to procur a reinforc to hi crew . `` On the fourth day of the sail , a larg cano wa descri , which seem to have touch at a low isl of coral . He steer away from it ; but the savag craft bore down on him ; and soon the voic of steelkilt hail him to heav to , or he would run him under water . the captain present a pistol . with one foot on each prow of the yoke war - cano , the lakeman laugh him to scorn ; assur him that if the pistol so much as click in the lock , he would buri him in bubbl and foam . `` ' what do you want of me ? ' cri the captain . `` ' where are you bound ? and for what are you bound ? ' demand steelkilt ; ' no lie . ' `` ' I am bound to tahiti for more men . ' `` ' veri good . let me board you a moment -- I come in peac . ' with that he leap from the cano , swam to the boat ; and climb the gunwal , stood face to face with the captain . `` ' cross your arm , sir ; throw back your head . now , repeat after me . As soon as steelkilt leav me , I swear to beach thi boat on yonder island , and remain there six day . If I do not , may lightn strike me ! ' `` ' A pretti scholar , ' laugh the lakeman . ' adio , senor ! ' and leap into the sea , he swam back to hi comrad . `` watch the boat till it wa fairli beach , and drawn up to the root of the cocoa - nut tree , steelkilt made sail again , and in due time arriv at tahiti , hi own place of destin . there , luck befriend him ; two ship were about to sail for franc , and were providenti in want of precis that number of men which the sailor head . they embark ; and so for ever got the start of their former captain , had he been at all mind to work them legal retribut . `` some ten day after the french ship sail , the whale - boat arriv , and the captain wa forc to enlist some of the more civil tahitian , who had been somewhat use to the sea . charter a small nativ schooner , he return with them to hi vessel ; and find all right there , again resum hi cruis . `` where steelkilt now is , gentlemen , none know ; but upon the island of nantucket , the widow of radney still turn to the sea which refus to give up it dead ; still in dream see the aw white whale that destroy him . `` ' are you through ? ' said don sebastian , quietli . `` ' I am , don . ' `` ' then I entreat you , tell me if to the best of your own convict , thi your stori is in substanc realli true ? It is so pass wonder ! did you get it from an unquestion sourc ? bear with me if I seem to press . ' `` ' also bear with all of us , sir sailor ; for we all join in don sebastian ' s suit , ' cri the compani , with exceed interest . `` ' Is there a copi of the holi evangelist in the golden inn , gentlemen ? ' `` ' nay , ' said don sebastian ; ' but I know a worthi priest near by , who will quickli procur one for me . I go for it ; but are you well advis ? thi may grow too seriou . ' `` ' will you be so good as to bring the priest also , don ? ' `` ' though there are no auto - da - Fe ' s in lima now , ' said one of the compani to anoth ; ' I fear our sailor friend run risk of the archiepiscopaci . let us withdraw more out of the moonlight . I see no need of thi . ' `` ' excus me for run after you , don sebastian ; but may I also beg that you will be particular in procur the largest size evangelist you can . ' ' thi is the priest , he bring you the evangelist , ' said don sebastian , grave , return with a tall and solemn figur . `` ' let me remov my hat . now , vener priest , further into the light , and hold the holi book befor me that I may touch it . `` ' So help me heaven , and on my honour the stori I have told ye , gentlemen , is in substanc and it great item , true . I know it to be true ; it happen on thi ball ; I trod the ship ; I knew the crew ; I have seen and talk with steelkilt sinc the death of radney . ' '' chapter 55 Of the monstrou pictur of whale . I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canva , someth like the true form of the whale as he actual appear to the eye of the whaleman when in hi own absolut bodi the whale is moor alongsid the whale - ship so that he can be fairli step upon there . It may be worth while , therefor , previous to advert to those curiou imaginari portrait of him which even down to the present day confid challeng the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in thi matter , by prove such pictur of the whale all wrong . It may be that the primal sourc of all those pictori delus will be found among the oldest hindoo , egyptian , and grecian sculptur . for ever sinc those invent but unscrupul time when on the marbl panel of templ , the pedest of statu , and on shield , medallion , cup , and coin , the dolphin wa drawn in scale of chain - armor like saladin ' s , and a helmet head like St . georg ' s ; ever sinc then ha someth of the same sort of licens prevail , not onli in most popular pictur of the whale , but in mani scientif present of him . now , by all odd , the most ancient extant portrait anyway purport to be the whale ' s , is to be found in the famou cavern - pagoda of elephanta , in india . the brahmin maintain that in the almost endless sculptur of that immemori pagoda , all the trade and pursuit , everi conceiv avoc of man , were prefigur age befor ani of them actual came into be . No wonder then , that in some sort our nobl profess of whale should have been there shadow forth . the hindoo whale refer to , occur in a separ depart of the wall , depict the incarn of vishnu in the form of leviathan , learnedli known as the mats avatar . but though thi sculptur is half man and half whale , so as onli to give the tail of the latter , yet that small section of him is all wrong . It look more like the taper tail of an anaconda , than the broad palm of the true whale ' s majest fluke . but go to the old galleri , and look now at a great christian painter ' s portrait of thi fish ; for he succe no better than the antediluvian hindoo . It is guido ' s pictur of perseu rescu andromeda from the sea - monster or whale . where did guido get the model of such a strang creatur as that ? nor doe hogarth , in paint the same scene in hi own `` perseu descend , '' make out one whit better . the huge corpul of that hogarthian monster undul on the surfac , scarc draw one inch of water . It ha a sort of howdah on it back , and it distend tusk mouth into which the billow are roll , might be taken for the traitor ' gate lead from the thame by water into the tower . then , there are the prodromu whale of old scotch sibbald , and jonah ' s whale , as depict in the print of old bibl and the cut of old primer . what shall be said of these ? As for the book - binder ' s whale wind like a vine - stalk round the stock of a descend anchor -- as stamp and gild on the back and titl - page of mani book both old and new -- that is a veri picturesqu but pure fabul creatur , imit , I take it , from the like figur on antiqu vase . though univers denomin a dolphin , I nevertheless call thi book - binder ' s fish an attempt at a whale ; becaus it wa so intend when the devic wa first introduc . It wa introduc by an old italian publish somewher about the 15th centuri , dure the reviv of learn ; and in those day , and even down to a compar late period , dolphin were popularli suppos to be a speci of the leviathan . In the vignett and other embellish of some ancient book you will at time meet with veri curiou touch at the whale , where all manner of spout , jet d ' eau , hot spring and cold , saratoga and baden - baden , come bubbl up from hi unexhaust brain . In the titl - page of the origin edit of the `` advanc of learn `` you will find some curiou whale . but quit all these unprofession attempt , let us glanc at those pictur of leviathan purport to be sober , scientif delin , by those who know . In old harri ' s collect of voyag there are some plate of whale extract from a dutch book of voyag , A . D . 1671 , entitl `` A whale voyag to spitzbergen in the ship jona in the whale , peter peterson of friesland , master . '' In one of those plate the whale , like great raft of log , are repres lie among ice - isl , with white bear run over their live back . In anoth plate , the prodigi blunder is made of repres the whale with perpendicular fluke . then again , there is an impos quarto , written by one captain colnett , a post captain in the english navi , entitl `` A voyag round cape horn into the south sea , for the purpos of extend the spermaceti whale fisheri . '' In thi book is an outlin purport to be a `` pictur of a physet or spermaceti whale , drawn by scale from one kill on the coast of mexico , august , 1793 , and hoist on deck . '' I doubt not the captain had thi veraci pictur taken for the benefit of hi marin . To mention but one thing about it , let me say that it ha an eye which appli , accord to the accompani scale , to a full grown sperm whale , would make the eye of that whale a bow - window some five feet long . Ah , my gallant captain , whi did ye not give us jonah look out of that eye ! nor are the most conscienti compil of natur histori for the benefit of the young and tender , free from the same heinous of mistak . look at that popular work `` goldsmith ' s anim natur . '' In the abridg london edit of 1807 , there are plate of an alleg `` whale `` and a `` narwhal . '' I do not wish to seem ineleg , but thi unsightli whale look much like an amput sow ; and , as for the narwhal , one glimps at it is enough to amaz one , that in thi nineteenth centuri such a hippogriff could be palm for genuin upon ani intellig public of schoolboy . then , again , in 1825 , bernard germain , count de laceped , a great naturalist , publish a scientif system whale book , wherein are sever pictur of the differ speci of the leviathan . all these are not onli incorrect , but the pictur of the mysticetu or greenland whale ( that is to say , the right whale ) , even scoresbi , a long experienc man as touch that speci , declar not to have it counterpart in natur . but the place of the cap - sheaf to all thi blunder busi wa reserv for the scientif frederick cuvier , brother to the famou baron . In 1836 , he publish a natur histori of whale , in which he give what he call a pictur of the sperm whale . befor show that pictur to ani nantucket , you had best provid for your summari retreat from nantucket . In a word , frederick cuvier ' s sperm whale is not a sperm whale , but a squash . Of cours , he never had the benefit of a whale voyag ( such men seldom have ) , but whenc he deriv that pictur , who can tell ? perhap he got it as hi scientif predecessor in the same field , desmarest , got one of hi authent abort ; that is , from a chines draw . and what sort of live lad with the pencil those chines are , mani queer cup and saucer inform us . As for the sign - painter ' whale seen in the street hang over the shop of oil - dealer , what shall be said of them ? they are gener richard iii . whale , with dromedari hump , and veri savag ; breakfast on three or four sailor tart , that is whaleboat full of marin : their deform flounder in sea of blood and blue paint . but these manifold mistak in depict the whale are not so veri surpris after all . consid ! most of the scientif draw have been taken from the strand fish ; and these are about as correct as a draw of a wreck ship , with broken back , would correctli repres the nobl anim itself in all it undash pride of hull and spar . though eleph have stood for their full - length , the live leviathan ha never yet fairli float himself for hi portrait . the live whale , in hi full majesti and signific , is onli to be seen at sea in unfathom water ; and afloat the vast bulk of him is out of sight , like a launch line - of - battl ship ; and out of that element it is a thing etern imposs for mortal man to hoist him bodili into the air , so as to preserv all hi mighti swell and undul . and , not to speak of the highli presum differ of contour between a young suck whale and a full - grown platonian leviathan ; yet , even in the case of one of those young suck whale hoist to a ship ' s deck , such is then the outlandish , eel - like , limber , vari shape of him , that hi precis express the devil himself could not catch . but it may be fanci , that from the nake skeleton of the strand whale , accur hint may be deriv touch hi true form . not at all . for it is one of the more curiou thing about thi leviathan , that hi skeleton give veri littl idea of hi gener shape . though jeremi bentham ' s skeleton , which hang for candelabra in the librari of one of hi executor , correctli convey the idea of a burli - brow utilitarian old gentleman , with all jeremi ' s other lead person characterist ; yet noth of thi kind could be infer from ani leviathan ' s articul bone . In fact , as the great hunter say , the mere skeleton of the whale bear the same relat to the fulli invest and pad anim as the insect doe to the chrysali that so roundingli envelop it . thi peculiar is strikingli evinc in the head , as in some part of thi book will be incident shown . It is also veri curious display in the side fin , the bone of which almost exactli answer to the bone of the human hand , minu onli the thumb . thi fin ha four regular bone - finger , the index , middl , ring , and littl finger . but all these are perman lodg in their fleshi cover , as the human finger in an artifici cover . `` howev recklessli the whale may sometim serv us , '' said humor stubb one day , `` he can never be truli said to handl us without mitten . '' for all these reason , then , ani way you may look at it , you must need conclud that the great leviathan is that one creatur in the world which must remain unpaint to the last . true , one portrait may hit the mark much nearer than anoth , but none can hit it with ani veri consider degre of exact . So there is no earthli way of find out precis what the whale realli look like . and the onli mode in which you can deriv even a toler idea of hi live contour , is by go a whale yourself ; but by so do , you run no small risk of be etern stove and sunk by him . wherefor , it seem to me you had best not be too fastidi in your curios touch thi leviathan . chapter 56 Of the less erron pictur of whale , and the true pictur of whale scene . In connexion with the monstrou pictur of whale , I am strongli tempt here to enter upon those still more monstrou stori of them which are to be found in certain book , both ancient and modern , especi in plini , purcha , hackluyt , harri , cuvier , etc . but I pass that matter by . I know of onli four publish outlin of the great sperm whale ; colnett ' s , huggin ' s , frederick cuvier ' s , and beal ' s . In the previou chapter colnett and cuvier have been refer to . huggin ' s is far better than their ; but , by great odd , beal ' s is the best . all beal ' s draw of thi whale are good , except the middl figur in the pictur of three whale in variou attitud , cap hi second chapter . hi frontispiec , boat attack sperm whale , though no doubt calcul to excit the civil sceptic of some parlor men , is admir correct and life - like in it gener effect . some of the sperm whale draw in J . ross brown are pretti correct in contour ; but they are wretchedli engrav . that is not hi fault though . Of the right whale , the best outlin pictur are in scoresbi ; but they are drawn on too small a scale to convey a desir impress . He ha but one pictur of whale scene , and thi is a sad defici , becaus it is by such pictur onli , when at all well done , that you can deriv anyth like a truth idea of the live whale as seen by hi live hunter . but , taken for all in all , by far the finest , though in some detail not the most correct , present of whale and whale scene to be anywher found , are two larg french engrav , well execut , and taken from paint by one garneri . respect , they repres attack on the sperm and right whale . In the first engrav a nobl sperm whale is depict in full majesti of might , just risen beneath the boat from the profund of the ocean , and bear high in the air upon hi back the terrif wreck of the stoven plank . the prow of the boat is partial unbroken , and is drawn just balanc upon the monster ' s spine ; and stand in that prow , for that one singl incomput flash of time , you behold an oarsman , half shroud by the incens boil spout of the whale , and in the act of leap , as if from a precipic . the action of the whole thing is wonder good and true . the half - empti line - tub float on the whiten sea ; the wooden pole of the spill harpoon obliqu bob in it ; the head of the swim crew are scatter about the whale in contrast express of affright ; while in the black stormi distanc the ship is bear down upon the scene . seriou fault might be found with the anatom detail of thi whale , but let that pass ; sinc , for the life of me , I could not draw so good a one . In the second engrav , the boat is in the act of draw alongsid the barnacl flank of a larg run right whale , that roll hi black weedi bulk in the sea like some mossi rock - slide from the patagonian cliff . hi jet are erect , full , and black like soot ; so that from so abound a smoke in the chimney , you would think there must be a brave supper cook in the great bowel below . sea fowl are peck at the small crab , shell - fish , and other sea candi and maccaroni , which the right whale sometim carri on hi pestil back . and all the while the thick - lip leviathan is rush through the deep , leav ton of tumultu white curd in hi wake , and caus the slight boat to rock in the swell like a skiff caught nigh the paddl - wheel of an ocean steamer . thu , the foreground is all rage commot ; but behind , in admir artist contrast , is the glassi level of a sea becalm , the droop unstarch sail of the powerless ship , and the inert mass of a dead whale , a conquer fortress , with the flag of captur lazili hang from the whale - pole insert into hi spout - hole . who garneri the painter is , or wa , I know not . but my life for it he wa either practic convers with hi subject , or els marvel tutor by some experienc whaleman . the french are the lad for paint action . Go and gaze upon all the paint of europ , and where will you find such a galleri of live and breath commot on canva , as in that triumphal hall at versail ; where the behold fight hi way , pell - mell , through the consecut great battl of franc ; where everi sword seem a flash of the northern light , and the success arm king and emperor dash by , like a charg of crown centaur ? not wholli unworthi of a place in that galleri , are these sea battl - piec of garneri . the natur aptitud of the french for seiz the picturesqu of thing seem to be peculiarli evinc in what paint and engrav they have of their whale scene . with not one tenth of england ' s experi in the fisheri , and not the thousandth part of that of the american , they have nevertheless furnish both nation with the onli finish sketch at all capabl of convey the real spirit of the whale hunt . for the most part , the english and american whale draughtsmen seem entir content with present the mechan outlin of thing , such as the vacant profil of the whale ; which , so far as picturesqu of effect is concern , is about tantamount to sketch the profil of a pyramid . even scoresbi , the justli renown right whaleman , after give us a stiff full length of the greenland whale , and three or four delic miniatur of narwhal and porpois , treat us to a seri of classic engrav of boat hook , chop knive , and grapnel ; and with the microscop dilig of a leuwenhoeck submit to the inspect of a shiver world nineti - six fac - simil of magnifi arctic snow crystal . I mean no disparag to the excel voyag ( I honour him for a veteran ) , but in so import a matter it wa certainli an oversight not to have procur for everi crystal a sworn affidavit taken befor a greenland justic of the peac . In addit to those fine engrav from garneri , there are two other french engrav worthi of note , by some one who subscrib himself `` H . durand . '' one of them , though not precis adapt to our present purpos , nevertheless deserv mention on other account . It is a quiet noon - scene among the isl of the pacif ; a french whaler anchor , inshor , in a calm , and lazili take water on board ; the loosen sail of the ship , and the long leav of the palm in the background , both droop togeth in the breezeless air . the effect is veri fine , when consid with refer to it present the hardi fishermen under one of their few aspect of orient repos . the other engrav is quit a differ affair : the ship hove - to upon the open sea , and in the veri heart of the leviathan life , with a right whale alongsid ; the vessel ( in the act of cut - in ) hove over to the monster as if to a quay ; and a boat , hurriedli push off from thi scene of activ , is about give chase to whale in the distanc . the harpoon and lanc lie level for use ; three oarsmen are just set the mast in it hole ; while from a sudden roll of the sea , the littl craft stand half - erect out of the water , like a rear hors . from the ship , the smoke of the torment of the boil whale is go up like the smoke over a villag of smithi ; and to windward , a black cloud , rise up with earnest of squall and rain , seem to quicken the activ of the excit seamen . chapter 57 Of whale in paint ; in teeth ; in wood ; in sheet - iron ; in stone ; in mountain ; in star . On tower - hill , as you go down to the london dock , you may have seen a crippl beggar ( or kedger , as the sailor say ) hold a paint board befor him , repres the tragic scene in which he lost hi leg . there are three whale and three boat ; and one of the boat ( presum to contain the miss leg in all it origin integr ) is be crunch by the jaw of the foremost whale . ani time these ten year , they tell me , ha that man held up that pictur , and exhibit that stump to an incredul world . but the time of hi justif ha now come . hi three whale are as good whale as were ever publish in wap , at ani rate ; and hi stump as unquestion a stump as ani you will find in the western clear . but , though for ever mount on that stump , never a stump - speech doe the poor whaleman make ; but , with downcast eye , stand ruefulli contempl hi own amput . throughout the pacif , and also in nantucket , and new bedford , and sag harbor , you will come across live sketch of whale and whale - scene , graven by the fishermen themselv on sperm whale - teeth , or ladi ' busk wrought out of the right whale - bone , and other like skrimshand articl , as the whalemen call the numer littl ingeni contriv they elabor carv out of the rough materi , in their hour of ocean leisur . some of them have littl box of dentist - look implement , special intend for the skrimshand busi . but , in gener , they toil with their jack - knive alon ; and , with that almost omnipot tool of the sailor , they will turn you out anyth you pleas , in the way of a marin ' s fanci . long exil from christendom and civil inevit restor a man to that condit in which god place him , i . e . what is call savageri . your true whale - hunter is as much a savag as an iroquoi . I myself am a savag , own no allegi but to the king of the cannib ; and readi at ani moment to rebel against him . now , one of the peculiar characterist of the savag in hi domest hour , is hi wonder patienc of industri . An ancient hawaiian war - club or spear - paddl , in it full multipl and elabor of carv , is as great a trophi of human persever as a latin lexicon . for , with but a bit of broken sea - shell or a shark ' s tooth , that miracul intricaci of wooden net - work ha been achiev ; and it ha cost steadi year of steadi applic . As with the hawaiian savag , so with the white sailor - savag . with the same marvel patienc , and with the same singl shark ' s tooth , of hi one poor jack - knife , he will carv you a bit of bone sculptur , not quit as workmanlik , but as close pack in it mazi of design , as the greek savag , achil ' s shield ; and full of barbar spirit and suggest , as the print of that fine old dutch savag , albert durer . wooden whale , or whale cut in profil out of the small dark slab of the nobl south sea war - wood , are frequent met with in the forecastl of american whaler . some of them are done with much accuraci . At some old gabl - roof countri hous you will see brass whale hung by the tail for knocker to the road - side door . when the porter is sleepi , the anvil - head whale would be best . but these knock whale are seldom remark as faith essay . On the spire of some old - fashion church you will see sheet - iron whale place there for weather - cock ; but they are so elev , and besid that are to all intent and purpos so label with `` hand off ! '' you can not examin them close enough to decid upon their merit . In boni , ribbi region of the earth , where at the base of high broken cliff mass of rock lie strewn in fantast group upon the plain , you will often discov imag as of the petrifi form of the leviathan partli merg in grass , which of a windi day break against them in a surf of green surg . then , again , in mountain countri where the travel is continu girdl by amphitheatr height ; here and there from some lucki point of view you will catch pass glimps of the profil of whale defin along the undul ridg . but you must be a thorough whaleman , to see these sight ; and not onli that , but if you wish to return to such a sight again , you must be sure and take the exact intersect latitud and longitud of your first stand - point , els so chanc - like are such observ of the hill , that your precis , previou stand - point would requir a labori re - discoveri ; like the soloma island , which still remain incognita , though onc high - ruf mendanna trod them and old figuera chronicl them . nor when expandingli lift by your subject , can you fail to trace out great whale in the starri heaven , and boat in pursuit of them ; as when long fill with thought of war the eastern nation saw armi lock in battl among the cloud . thu at the north have I chase leviathan round and round the pole with the revolut of the bright point that first defin him to me . and beneath the effulg antarct sky I have board the argo - navi , and join the chase against the starri cetu far beyond the utmost stretch of hydru and the fli fish . with a frigat ' s anchor for my bridl - bitt and fasc of harpoon for spur , would I could mount that whale and leap the topmost sky , to see whether the fabl heaven with all their countless tent realli lie encamp beyond my mortal sight ! chapter 58 brit . steer north - eastward from the crozett , we fell in with vast meadow of brit , the minut , yellow substanc , upon which the right whale larg feed . for leagu and leagu it undul round us , so that we seem to be sail through boundless field of ripe and golden wheat . On the second day , number of right whale were seen , who , secur from the attack of a sperm whaler like the pequod , with open jaw sluggishli swam through the brit , which , adher to the fring fibr of that wondrou venetian blind in their mouth , wa in that manner separ from the water that escap at the lip . As morn mower , who side by side slowli and seethingli advanc their scyth through the long wet grass of marshi mead ; even so these monster swam , make a strang , grassi , cut sound ; and leav behind them endless swath of blue upon the yellow sea . * * that part of the sea known among whalemen as the `` brazil bank `` doe not bear that name as the bank of newfoundland do , becaus of there be shallow and sound there , but becaus of thi remark meadow - like appear , caus by the vast drift of brit continu float in those latitud , where the right whale is often chase . but it wa onli the sound they made as they part the brit which at all remind one of mower . seen from the mast - head , especi when they paus and were stationari for a while , their vast black form look more like lifeless mass of rock than anyth els . and as in the great hunt countri of india , the stranger at a distanc will sometim pass on the plain recumb eleph without know them to be such , take them for bare , blacken elev of the soil ; even so , often , with him , who for the first time behold thi speci of the leviathan of the sea . and even when recognis at last , their immens magnitud render it veri hard realli to believ that such bulki mass of overgrowth can possibl be instinct , in all part , with the same sort of life that live in a dog or a hors . inde , in other respect , you can hardli regard ani creatur of the deep with the same feel that you do those of the shore . for though some old naturalist have maintain that all creatur of the land are of their kind in the sea ; and though take a broad gener view of the thing , thi may veri well be ; yet come to specialti , where , for exampl , doe the ocean furnish ani fish that in disposit answer to the sagaci kind of the dog ? the accurs shark alon can in ani gener respect be said to bear compar analog to him . but though , to landsmen in gener , the nativ inhabit of the sea have ever been regard with emot unspeak unsoci and repel ; though we know the sea to be an everlast terra incognita , so that columbu sail over numberless unknown world to discov hi one superfici western one ; though , by vast odd , the most terrif of all mortal disast have immemori and indiscrimin befallen ten and hundr of thousand of those who have gone upon the water ; though but a moment ' s consider will teach , that howev babi man may brag of hi scienc and skill , and howev much , in a flatter futur , that scienc and skill may augment ; yet for ever and for ever , to the crack of doom , the sea will insult and murder him , and pulver the stateliest , stiffest frigat he can make ; nevertheless , by the continu repetit of these veri impress , man ha lost that sens of the full aw of the sea which aborigin belong to it . the first boat we read of , float on an ocean , that with portugues vengeanc had whelm a whole world without leav so much as a widow . that same ocean roll now ; that same ocean destroy the wreck ship of last year . yea , foolish mortal , noah ' s flood is not yet subsid ; two third of the fair world it yet cover . wherein differ the sea and the land , that a miracl upon one is not a miracl upon the other ? preternatur terror rest upon the hebrew , when under the feet of korah and hi compani the live ground open and swallow them up for ever ; yet not a modern sun ever set , but in precis the same manner the live sea swallow up ship and crew . but not onli is the sea such a foe to man who is an alien to it , but it is also a fiend to it own off - spring ; wors than the persian host who murder hi own guest ; spare not the creatur which itself hath spawn . like a savag tigress that toss in the jungl overlay her own cub , so the sea dash even the mightiest whale against the rock , and leav them there side by side with the split wreck of ship . No merci , no power but it own control it . pant and snort like a mad battl steed that ha lost it rider , the masterless ocean overrun the globe . consid the subtl of the sea ; how it most dread creatur glide under water , unappar for the most part , and treacher hidden beneath the loveliest tint of azur . consid also the devilish brillianc and beauti of mani of it most remorseless tribe , as the dainti embellish shape of mani speci of shark . consid , onc more , the univers cannib of the sea ; all whose creatur prey upon each other , carri on etern war sinc the world began . consid all thi ; and then turn to thi green , gentl , and most docil earth ; consid them both , the sea and the land ; and do you not find a strang analog to someth in yourself ? for as thi appal ocean surround the verdant land , so in the soul of man there lie one insular tahiti , full of peac and joy , but encompass by all the horror of the half known life . god keep thee ! push not off from that isl , thou canst never return ! chapter 59 squid . slowli wade through the meadow of brit , the pequod still held on her way north - eastward toward the island of java ; a gentl air impel her keel , so that in the surround seren her three tall taper mast mildli wave to that languid breez , as three mild palm on a plain . and still , at wide interv in the silveri night , the lone , allur jet would be seen . but one transpar blue morn , when a still almost preternatur spread over the sea , howev unattend with ani stagnant calm ; when the long burnish sun - glade on the water seem a golden finger laid across them , enjoin some secreci ; when the slipper wave whisper togeth as they softli ran on ; in thi profound hush of the visibl sphere a strang spectr wa seen by daggoo from the main - mast - head . In the distanc , a great white mass lazili rose , and rise higher and higher , and disentangl itself from the azur , at last gleam befor our prow like a snow - slide , new slid from the hill . thu glisten for a moment , as slowli it subsid , and sank . then onc more aros , and silent gleam . It seem not a whale ; and yet is thi mobi dick ? thought daggoo . again the phantom went down , but on re - appear onc more , with a stiletto - like cri that startl everi man from hi nod , the negro yell out -- '' there ! there again ! there she breach ! right ahead ! the white whale , the white whale ! '' upon thi , the seamen rush to the yard - arm , as in swarm - time the bee rush to the bough . bare - head in the sultri sun , ahab stood on the bowsprit , and with one hand push far behind in readi to wave hi order to the helmsman , cast hi eager glanc in the direct indic aloft by the outstretch motionless arm of daggoo . whether the flit attend of the one still and solitari jet had gradual work upon ahab , so that he wa now prepar to connect the idea of mild and repos with the first sight of the particular whale he pursu ; howev thi wa , or whether hi eager betray him ; whichev way it might have been , no sooner did he distinctli perceiv the white mass , than with a quick intens he instantli gave order for lower . the four boat were soon on the water ; ahab ' s in advanc , and all swiftli pull toward their prey . soon it went down , and while , with oar suspend , we were await it reappear , lo ! in the same spot where it sank , onc more it slowli rose . almost forget for the moment all thought of mobi dick , we now gaze at the most wondrou phenomenon which the secret sea have hitherto reveal to mankind . A vast pulpi mass , furlong in length and breadth , of a glanc cream - colour , lay float on the water , innumer long arm radiat from it centr , and curl and twist like a nest of anaconda , as if blindli to clutch at ani hapless object within reach . No percept face or front did it have ; no conceiv token of either sensat or instinct ; but undul there on the billow , an unearthli , formless , chanc - like apparit of life . As with a low suck sound it slowli disappear again , starbuck still gaze at the agit water where it had sunk , with a wild voic exclaim -- '' almost rather had I seen mobi dick and fought him , than to have seen thee , thou white ghost ! '' `` what wa it , sir ? '' said flask . `` the great live squid , which , they say , few whale - ship ever beheld , and return to their port to tell of it . '' but ahab said noth ; turn hi boat , he sail back to the vessel ; the rest as silent follow . whatev superstit the sperm whalemen in gener have connect with the sight of thi object , certain it is , that a glimps of it be so veri unusu , that circumst ha gone far to invest it with portent . So rare is it beheld , that though one and all of them declar it to be the largest anim thing in the ocean , yet veri few of them have ani but the most vagu idea concern it true natur and form ; notwithstand , they believ it to furnish to the sperm whale hi onli food . for though other speci of whale find their food abov water , and may be seen by man in the act of feed , the spermaceti whale obtain hi whole food in unknown zone below the surfac ; and onli by infer is it that ani one can tell of what , precis , that food consist . At time , when close pursu , he will disgorg what are suppos to be the detach arm of the squid ; some of them thu exhibit exceed twenti and thirti feet in length . they fanci that the monster to which these arm belong ordinarili cling by them to the bed of the ocean ; and that the sperm whale , unlik other speci , is suppli with teeth in order to attack and tear it . there seem some ground to imagin that the great kraken of bishop pontoppodan may ultim resolv itself into squid . the manner in which the bishop describ it , as altern rise and sink , with some other particular he narrat , in all thi the two correspond . but much abat is necessari with respect to the incred bulk he assign it . By some naturalist who have vagu heard rumor of the mysteri creatur , here spoken of , it is includ among the class of cuttl - fish , to which , inde , in certain extern respect it would seem to belong , but onli as the anak of the tribe . chapter 60 the line . with refer to the whale scene shortli to be describ , as well as for the better understand of all similar scene elsewher present , I have here to speak of the magic , sometim horribl whale - line . the line origin use in the fisheri wa of the best hemp , slightli vapour with tar , not impregn with it , as in the case of ordinari rope ; for while tar , as ordinarili use , make the hemp more pliabl to the rope - maker , and also render the rope itself more conveni to the sailor for common ship use ; yet , not onli would the ordinari quantiti too much stiffen the whale - line for the close coil to which it must be subject ; but as most seamen are begin to learn , tar in gener by no mean add to the rope ' s durabl or strength , howev much it may give it compact and gloss . Of late year the manilla rope ha in the american fisheri almost entir supersed hemp as a materi for whale - line ; for , though not so durabl as hemp , it is stronger , and far more soft and elast ; and I will add ( sinc there is an aesthet in all thing ) , is much more handsom and becom to the boat , than hemp . hemp is a duski , dark fellow , a sort of indian ; but manilla is as a golden - hair circassian to behold . the whale - line is onli two - third of an inch in thick . At first sight , you would not think it so strong as it realli is . By experi it one and fifti yarn will each suspend a weight of one hundr and twenti pound ; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearli equal to three ton . In length , the common sperm whale - line measur someth over two hundr fathom . toward the stern of the boat it is spiral coil away in the tub , not like the worm - pipe of a still though , but so as to form one round , chees - shape mass of dens bed `` sheav , '' or layer of concentr spiral , without ani hollow but the `` heart , '' or minut vertic tube form at the axi of the chees . As the least tangl or kink in the coil would , in run out , infal take somebodi ' s arm , leg , or entir bodi off , the utmost precaut is use in stow the line in it tub . some harpoon will consum almost an entir morn in thi busi , carri the line high aloft and then reev it downward through a block toward the tub , so as in the act of coil to free it from all possibl wrinkl and twist . In the english boat two tub are use instead of one ; the same line be continu coil in both tub . there is some advantag in thi ; becaus these twin - tub be so small they fit more readili into the boat , and do not strain it so much ; wherea , the american tub , nearli three feet in diamet and of proportion depth , make a rather bulki freight for a craft whose plank are but one half - inch in thick ; for the bottom of the whale - boat is like critic ice , which will bear up a consider distribut weight , but not veri much of a concentr one . when the paint canva cover is clap on the american line - tub , the boat look as if it were pull off with a prodigi great wed - cake to present to the whale . both end of the line are expos ; the lower end termin in an eye - splice or loop come up from the bottom against the side of the tub , and hang over it edg complet disengag from everyth . thi arrang of the lower end is necessari on two account . first : In order to facilit the fasten to it of an addit line from a neighbor boat , in case the stricken whale should sound so deep as to threaten to carri off the entir line origin attach to the harpoon . In these instanc , the whale of cours is shift like a mug of ale , as it were , from the one boat to the other ; though the first boat alway hover at hand to assist it consort . second : thi arrang is indispens for common safeti ' s sake ; for were the lower end of the line in ani way attach to the boat , and were the whale then to run the line out to the end almost in a singl , smoke minut as he sometim doe , he would not stop there , for the doom boat would infal be drag down after him into the profund of the sea ; and in that case no town - crier would ever find her again . befor lower the boat for the chase , the upper end of the line is taken aft from the tub , and pass round the loggerhead there , is again carri forward the entir length of the boat , rest crosswis upon the loom or handl of everi man ' s oar , so that it jog against hi wrist in row ; and also pass between the men , as they altern sit at the opposit gunwal , to the lead chock or groov in the extrem point prow of the boat , where a wooden pin or skewer the size of a common quill , prevent it from slip out . from the chock it hang in a slight festoon over the bow , and is then pass insid the boat again ; and some ten or twenti fathom ( call box - line ) be coil upon the box in the bow , it continu it way to the gunwal still a littl further aft , and is then attach to the short - warp -- the rope which is immedi connect with the harpoon ; but previou to that connexion , the short - warp goe through sundri mystif too tediou to detail . thu the whale - line fold the whole boat in it complic coil , twist and writh around it in almost everi direct . all the oarsmen are involv in it peril contort ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as indian juggler , with the deadliest snake sportiv festoon their limb . nor can ani son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricaci , and while strain hi utmost at the oar , bethink him that at ani unknown instant the harpoon may be dart , and all these horribl contort be put in play like ring lightn ; he can not be thu circumstanc without a shudder that make the veri marrow in hi bone to quiver in him like a shaken jelli . yet habit -- strang thing ! what can not habit accomplish ? -- gayer salli , more merri mirth , better joke , and brighter reparte , you never heard over your mahogani , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thu hung in hangman ' s noos ; and , like the six burgher of calai befor king edward , the six men compos the crew pull into the jaw of death , with a halter around everi neck , as you may say . perhap a veri littl thought will now enabl you to account for those repeat whale disast -- some few of which are casual chronicl -- of thi man or that man be taken out of the boat by the line , and lost . for , when the line is dart out , to be seat then in the boat , is like be seat in the midst of the manifold whizz of a steam - engin in full play , when everi fli beam , and shaft , and wheel , is graze you . It is wors ; for you can not sit motionless in the heart of these peril , becaus the boat is rock like a cradl , and you are pitch one way and the other , without the slightest warn ; and onli by a certain self - adjust buoyanc and simultan of volit and action , can you escap be made a mazeppa of , and run away with where the all - see sun himself could never pierc you out . again : as the profound calm which onli appar preced and prophesi of the storm , is perhap more aw than the storm itself ; for , inde , the calm is but the wrapper and envelop of the storm ; and contain it in itself , as the seemingli harmless rifl hold the fatal powder , and the ball , and the explos ; so the grace repos of the line , as it silent serpentin about the oarsmen befor be brought into actual play -- thi is a thing which carri more of true terror than ani other aspect of thi danger affair . but whi say more ? all men live envelop in whale - line . all are born with halter round their neck ; but it is onli when caught in the swift , sudden turn of death , that mortal realiz the silent , subtl , ever - present peril of life . and if you be a philosoph , though seat in the whale - boat , you would not at heart feel one whit more of terror , than though seat befor your even fire with a poker , and not a harpoon , by your side . chapter 61 stubb kill a whale . If to starbuck the apparit of the squid wa a thing of portent , to queequeg it wa quit a differ object . `` when you see him ' quid , '' said the savag , hone hi harpoon in the bow of hi hoist boat , `` then you quick see him ' parm whale . '' the next day wa exceedingli still and sultri , and with noth special to engag them , the pequod ' s crew could hardli resist the spell of sleep induc by such a vacant sea . for thi part of the indian ocean through which we then were voyag is not what whalemen call a live ground ; that is , it afford fewer glimps of porpois , dolphin , fli - fish , and other vivaci denizen of more stir water , than those off the rio de la plata , or the in - shore ground off peru . It wa my turn to stand at the foremast - head ; and with my shoulder lean against the slacken royal shroud , to and fro I idli sway in what seem an enchant air . No resolut could withstand it ; in that dreami mood lose all conscious , at last my soul went out of my bodi ; though my bodi still continu to sway as a pendulum will , long after the power which first move it is withdrawn . ere forget altogeth came over me , I had notic that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - head were alreadi drowsi . So that at last all three of us lifelessli swung from the spar , and for everi swing that we made there wa a nod from below from the slumber helmsman . the wave , too , nod their indol crest ; and across the wide tranc of the sea , east nod to west , and the sun over all . suddenli bubbl seem burst beneath my close eye ; like vice my hand grasp the shroud ; some invis , graciou agenc preserv me ; with a shock I came back to life . and lo ! close under our lee , not forti fathom off , a gigant sperm whale lay roll in the water like the capsiz hull of a frigat , hi broad , glossi back , of an ethiopian hue , glisten in the sun ' s ray like a mirror . but lazili undul in the trough of the sea , and ever and anon tranquilli spout hi vapouri jet , the whale look like a portli burgher smoke hi pipe of a warm afternoon . but that pipe , poor whale , wa thi last . As if struck by some enchant ' s wand , the sleepi ship and everi sleeper in it all at onc start into wake ; and more than a score of voic from all part of the vessel , simultan with the three note from aloft , shout forth the accustom cri , as the great fish slowli and regularli spout the sparkl brine into the air . `` clear away the boat ! luff ! '' cri ahab . and obey hi own order , he dash the helm down befor the helmsman could handl the spoke . the sudden exclam of the crew must have alarm the whale ; and ere the boat were down , majest turn , he swam away to the leeward , but with such a steadi tranquil , and make so few rippl as he swam , that think after all he might not as yet be alarm , ahab gave order that not an oar should be use , and no man must speak but in whisper . So seat like ontario indian on the gunwal of the boat , we swiftli but silent paddl along ; the calm not admit of the noiseless sail be set . present , as we thu glide in chase , the monster perpendicularli flit hi tail forti feet into the air , and then sank out of sight like a tower swallow up . `` there go fluke ! '' wa the cri , an announc immedi follow by stubb ' s produc hi match and ignit hi pipe , for now a respit wa grant . after the full interv of hi sound had elaps , the whale rose again , and be now in advanc of the smoker ' s boat , and much nearer to it than to ani of the other , stubb count upon the honour of the captur . It wa obviou , now , that the whale had at length becom awar of hi pursuer . all silenc of cautious wa therefor no longer of use . paddl were drop , and oar came loudli into play . and still puf at hi pipe , stubb cheer on hi crew to the assault . ye , a mighti chang had come over the fish . all aliv to hi jeopardi , he wa go `` head out `` ; that part obliqu project from the mad yeast which he brew . * * It will be seen in some other place of what a veri light substanc the entir interior of the sperm whale ' s enorm head consist . though appar the most massiv , it is by far the most buoyant part about him . So that with eas he elev it in the air , and invari doe so when go at hi utmost speed . besid , such is the breadth of the upper part of the front of hi head , and such the taper cut - water format of the lower part , that by obliqu elev hi head , he therebi may be said to transform himself from a bluff - bow sluggish galliot into a sharppoint new york pilot - boat . `` start her , start her , my men ! don ' t hurri yourselv ; take plenti of time -- but start her ; start her like thunder - clap , that ' s all , '' cri stubb , splutter out the smoke as he spoke . `` start her , now ; give ' em the long and strong stroke , tashtego . start her , tash , my boy -- start her , all ; but keep cool , keep cool -- cucumb is the word -- easi , easi -- onli start her like grim death and grin devil , and rais the buri dead perpendicular out of their grave , boy -- that ' s all . start her ! '' `` woo - hoo ! Wa - hee ! '' scream the gay - header in repli , rais some old war - whoop to the sky ; as everi oarsman in the strain boat involuntarili bounc forward with the one tremend lead stroke which the eager indian gave . but hi wild scream were answer by other quit as wild . `` kee - hee ! kee - hee ! '' yell daggoo , strain forward and backward on hi seat , like a pace tiger in hi cage . `` Ka - la ! koo - loo ! '' howl queequeg , as if smack hi lip over a mouth of grenadi ' s steak . and thu with oar and yell the keel cut the sea . meanwhil , stubb retain hi place in the van , still encourag hi men to the onset , all the while puf the smoke from hi mouth . like desperado they tug and they strain , till the welcom cri wa heard -- '' stand up , tashtego ! -- give it to him ! '' the harpoon wa hurl . `` stern all ! '' the oarsmen back water ; the same moment someth went hot and hiss along everi one of their wrist . It wa the magic line . An instant befor , stubb had swiftli caught two addit turn with it round the loggerhead , whenc , by reason of it increas rapid circl , a hempen blue smoke now jet up and mingl with the steadi fume from hi pipe . As the line pass round and round the loggerhead ; so also , just befor reach that point , it blisteringli pass through and through both of stubb ' s hand , from which the hand - cloth , or squar of quilt canva sometim worn at these time , had accident drop . It wa like hold an enemi ' s sharp two - edg sword by the blade , and that enemi all the time strive to wrest it out of your clutch . `` wet the line ! wet the line ! '' cri stubb to the tub oarsman ( him seat by the tub ) who , snatch off hi hat , dash sea - water into it . * more turn were taken , so that the line began hold it place . the boat now flew through the boil water like a shark all fin . stubb and tashtego here chang place -- stem for stern -- a stagger busi truli in that rock commot . * partli to show the indispens of thi act , it may here be state , that , in the old dutch fisheri , a mop wa use to dash the run line with water ; in mani other ship , a wooden piggin , or bailer , is set apart for that purpos . your hat , howev , is the most conveni . from the vibrat line extend the entir length of the upper part of the boat , and from it now be more tight than a harpstr , you would have thought the craft had two keel -- one cleav the water , the other the air -- as the boat churn on through both oppos element at onc . A continu cascad play at the bow ; a ceaseless whirl eddi in her wake ; and , at the slightest motion from within , even but of a littl finger , the vibrat , crack craft cant over her spasmod gunwal into the sea . thu they rush ; each man with might and main cling to hi seat , to prevent be toss to the foam ; and the tall form of tashtego at the steer oar crouch almost doubl , in order to bring down hi centr of graviti . whole atlant and pacif seem pass as they shot on their way , till at length the whale somewhat slacken hi flight . `` haul in -- haul in ! '' cri stubb to the bowsman ! and , face round toward the whale , all hand began pull the boat up to him , while yet the boat wa be tow on . soon rang up by hi flank , stubb , firmli plant hi knee in the clumsi cleat , dart dart after dart into the fli fish ; at the word of command , the boat altern stern out of the way of the whale ' s horribl wallow , and then rang up for anoth fling . the red tide now pour from all side of the monster like brook down a hill . hi torment bodi roll not in brine but in blood , which bubbl and seeth for furlong behind in their wake . the slant sun play upon thi crimson pond in the sea , sent back it reflect into everi face , so that they all glow to each other like red men . and all the while , jet after jet of white smoke wa agonizingli shot from the spiracl of the whale , and vehement puff after puff from the mouth of the excit headsman ; as at everi dart , haul in upon hi crook lanc ( by the line attach to it ) , stubb straighten it again and again , by a few rapid blow against the gunwal , then again and again sent it into the whale . `` pull up -- pull up ! '' he now cri to the bowsman , as the wane whale relax in hi wrath . `` pull up ! -- close to ! '' and the boat rang along the fish ' s flank . when reach far over the bow , stubb slowli churn hi long sharp lanc into the fish , and kept it there , care churn and churn , as if cautious seek to feel after some gold watch that the whale might have swallow , and which he wa fear of break ere he could hook it out . but that gold watch he sought wa the innermost life of the fish . and now it is struck ; for , start from hi tranc into that unspeak thing call hi `` flurri , '' the monster horribl wallow in hi blood , overwrap himself in impenetr , mad , boil spray , so that the imperil craft , instantli drop astern , had much ado blindli to struggl out from that phrensi twilight into the clear air of the day . and now abat in hi flurri , the whale onc more roll out into view ; surg from side to side ; spasmod dilat and contract hi spout - hole , with sharp , crack , agon respir . At last , gush after gush of clot red gore , as if it had been the purpl lee of red wine , shot into the fright air ; and fall back again , ran drip down hi motionless flank into the sea . hi heart had burst ! `` He ' s dead , Mr . stubb , '' said daggoo . `` ye ; both pipe smoke out ! '' and withdraw hi own from hi mouth , stubb scatter the dead ash over the water ; and , for a moment , stood thought eye the vast corps he had made . chapter 62 the dart . A word concern an incid in the last chapter . accord to the invari usag of the fisheri , the whale - boat push off from the ship , with the headsman or whale - killer as temporari steersman , and the harpoon or whale - fasten pull the foremost oar , the one known as the harpoon - oar . now it need a strong , nervou arm to strike the first iron into the fish ; for often , in what is call a long dart , the heavi implement ha to be flung to the distanc of twenti or thirti feet . but howev prolong and exhaust the chase , the harpoon is expect to pull hi oar meanwhil to the uttermost ; inde , he is expect to set an exampl of superhuman activ to the rest , not onli by incred row , but by repeat loud and intrepid exclam ; and what it is to keep shout at the top of one ' s compass , while all the other muscl are strain and half start -- what that is none know but those who have tri it . for one , I can not bawl veri heartili and work veri recklessli at one and the same time . In thi strain , bawl state , then , with hi back to the fish , all at onc the exhaust harpoon hear the excit cri -- '' stand up , and give it to him ! '' He now ha to drop and secur hi oar , turn round on hi centr half way , seiz hi harpoon from the crotch , and with what littl strength may remain , he essay to pitch it somehow into the whale . No wonder , take the whole fleet of whalemen in a bodi , that out of fifti fair chanc for a dart , not five are success ; no wonder that so mani hapless harpoon are madli curs and disrat ; no wonder that some of them actual burst their blood - vessel in the boat ; no wonder that some sperm whalemen are absent four year with four barrel ; no wonder that to mani ship owner , whale is but a lose concern ; for it is the harpoon that make the voyag , and if you take the breath out of hi bodi how can you expect to find it there when most want ! again , if the dart be success , then at the second critic instant , that is , when the whale start to run , the boathead and harpoon likewis start to run fore and aft , to the immin jeopardi of themselv and everi one els . It is then they chang place ; and the headsman , the chief offic of the littl craft , take hi proper station in the bow of the boat . now , I care not who maintain the contrari , but all thi is both foolish and unnecessari . the headsman should stay in the bow from first to last ; he should both dart the harpoon and the lanc , and no row whatev should be expect of him , except under circumst obviou to ani fisherman . I know that thi would sometim involv a slight loss of speed in the chase ; but long experi in variou whalemen of more than one nation ha convinc me that in the vast major of failur in the fisheri , it ha not by ani mean been so much the speed of the whale as the befor describ exhaust of the harpoon that ha caus them . To insur the greatest effici in the dart , the harpoon of thi world must start to their feet from out of idl , and not from out of toil . chapter 63 the crotch . out of the trunk , the branch grow ; out of them , the twig . So , in product subject , grow the chapter . the crotch allud to on a previou page deserv independ mention . It is a notch stick of a peculiar form , some two feet in length , which is perpendicularli insert into the starboard gunwal near the bow , for the purpos of furnish a rest for the wooden extrem of the harpoon , whose other nake , barb end slopingli project from the prow . therebi the weapon is instantli at hand to it hurler , who snatch it up as readili from it rest as a backwoodsman swing hi rifl from the wall . It is customari to have two harpoon repos in the crotch , respect call the first and second iron . but these two harpoon , each by it own cord , are both connect with the line ; the object be thi : to dart them both , if possibl , one instantli after the other into the same whale ; so that if , in the come drag , one should draw out , the other may still retain a hold . It is a doubl of the chanc . but it veri often happen that owe to the instantan , violent , convuls run of the whale upon receiv the first iron , it becom imposs for the harpoon , howev lightn - like in hi movement , to pitch the second iron into him . nevertheless , as the second iron is alreadi connect with the line , and the line is run , henc that weapon must , at all event , be anticipatingli toss out of the boat , somehow and somewher ; els the most terribl jeopardi would involv all hand . tumbl into the water , it accordingli is in such case ; the spare coil of box line ( mention in a preced chapter ) make thi feat , in most instanc , prudent practic . but thi critic act is not alway unattend with the saddest and most fatal casualti . furthermor : you must know that when the second iron is thrown overboard , it thenceforth becom a dangl , sharp - edg terror , skittishli curvet about both boat and whale , entangl the line , or cut them , and make a prodigi sensat in all direct . nor , in gener , is it possibl to secur it again until the whale is fairli captur and a corps . consid , now , how it must be in the case of four boat all engag one unusu strong , activ , and know whale ; when owe to these qualiti in him , as well as to the thousand concur accid of such an audaci enterpris , eight or ten loos second iron may be simultan dangl about him . for , of cours , each boat is suppli with sever harpoon to bend on to the line should the first one be ineffectu dart without recoveri . all these particular are faith narrat here , as they will not fail to elucid sever most import , howev intric passag , in scene hereaft to be paint . chapter 64 stubb ' s supper . stubb ' s whale had been kill some distanc from the ship . It wa a calm ; so , form a tandem of three boat , we commenc the slow busi of tow the trophi to the pequod . and now , as we eighteen men with our thirti - six arm , and one hundr and eighti thumb and finger , slowli toil hour after hour upon that inert , sluggish corps in the sea ; and it seem hardli to budg at all , except at long interv ; good evid wa herebi furnish of the enorm of the mass we move . for , upon the great canal of hang - Ho , or whatev they call it , in china , four or five labor on the foot - path will draw a bulki freight junk at the rate of a mile an hour ; but thi grand argosi we tow heavili forg along , as if laden with pig - lead in bulk . dark came on ; but three light up and down in the pequod ' s main - rig dimli guid our way ; till draw nearer we saw ahab drop one of sever more lantern over the bulwark . vacantli eye the heav whale for a moment , he issu the usual order for secur it for the night , and then hand hi lantern to a seaman , went hi way into the cabin , and did not come forward again until morn . though , in overse the pursuit of thi whale , captain ahab had evinc hi customari activ , to call it so ; yet now that the creatur wa dead , some vagu dissatisfact , or impati , or despair , seem work in him ; as if the sight of that dead bodi remind him that mobi dick wa yet to be slain ; and though a thousand other whale were brought to hi ship , all that would not one jot advanc hi grand , monomaniac object . veri soon you would have thought from the sound on the pequod ' s deck , that all hand were prepar to cast anchor in the deep ; for heavi chain are be drag along the deck , and thrust rattl out of the port - hole . but by those clank link , the vast corps itself , not the ship , is to be moor . tie by the head to the stern , and by the tail to the bow , the whale now lie with it black hull close to the vessel ' s and seen through the dark of the night , which obscur the spar and rig aloft , the two -- ship and whale , seem yoke togeth like coloss bullock , whereof one reclin while the other remain stand . * * A littl item may as well be relat here . the strongest and most reliabl hold which the ship ha upon the whale when moor alongsid , is by the fluke or tail ; and as from it greater densiti that part is rel heavier than ani other ( except the side - fin ) , it flexibl even in death , caus it to sink low beneath the surfac ; so that with the hand you can not get at it from the boat , in order to put the chain round it . but thi difficulti is ingeni overcom : a small , strong line is prepar with a wooden float at it outer end , and a weight in it middl , while the other end is secur to the ship . By adroit manag the wooden float is made to rise on the other side of the mass , so that now have girdl the whale , the chain is readili made to follow suit ; and be slip along the bodi , is at last lock fast round the smallest part of the tail , at the point of junction with it broad fluke or lobe . If moodi ahab wa now all quiescenc , at least so far as could be known on deck , stubb , hi second mate , flush with conquest , betray an unusu but still good - natur excit . such an unwont bustl wa he in that the staid starbuck , hi offici superior , quietli resign to him for the time the sole manag of affair . one small , help caus of all thi liveli in stubb , wa soon made strang manifest . stubb wa a high liver ; he wa somewhat intemper fond of the whale as a flavorish thing to hi palat . `` A steak , a steak , ere I sleep ! you , daggoo ! overboard you go , and cut me one from hi small ! '' here be it known , that though these wild fishermen do not , as a gener thing , and accord to the great militari maxim , make the enemi defray the current expens of the war ( at least befor realiz the proce of the voyag ) , yet now and then you find some of these nantucket who have a genuin relish for that particular part of the sperm whale design by stubb ; compris the taper extrem of the bodi . about midnight that steak wa cut and cook ; and light by two lantern of sperm oil , stubb stoutli stood up to hi spermaceti supper at the capstan - head , as if that capstan were a sideboard . nor wa stubb the onli banquet on whale ' s flesh that night . mingl their mumbl with hi own mastic , thousand on thousand of shark , swarm round the dead leviathan , smackingli feast on it fat . the few sleeper below in their bunk were often startl by the sharp slap of their tail against the hull , within a few inch of the sleeper ' heart . peer over the side you could just see them ( as befor you heard them ) wallow in the sullen , black water , and turn over on their back as they scoop out huge globular piec of the whale of the big of a human head . thi particular feat of the shark seem all but miracul . how at such an appar unassail surfac , they contriv to goug out such symmetr mouth , remain a part of the univers problem of all thing . the mark they thu leav on the whale , may best be liken to the hollow made by a carpent in countersink for a screw . though amid all the smoke horror and diabol of a sea - fight , shark will be seen longingli gaze up to the ship ' s deck , like hungri dog round a tabl where red meat is be carv , readi to bolt down everi kill man that is toss to them ; and though , while the valiant butcher over the deck - tabl are thu cannib carv each other ' s live meat with carv - knive all gild and tassel , the shark , also , with their jewel - hilt mouth , are quarrelsom carv away under the tabl at the dead meat ; and though , were you to turn the whole affair upsid down , it would still be pretti much the same thing , that is to say , a shock sharkish busi enough for all parti ; and though shark also are the invari outrid of all slave ship cross the atlant , systemat trot alongsid , to be handi in case a parcel is to be carri anywher , or a dead slave to be decent buri ; and though one or two other like instanc might be set down , touch the set term , place , and occas , when shark do most social congreg , and most hilari feast ; yet is there no conceiv time or occas when you will find them in such countless number , and in gayer or more jovial spirit , than around a dead sperm whale , moor by night to a whaleship at sea . If you have never seen that sight , then suspend your decis about the proprieti of devil - worship , and the expedi of concili the devil . but , as yet , stubb heed not the mumbl of the banquet that wa go on so nigh him , no more than the shark heed the smack of hi own epicurean lip . `` cook , cook ! -- where ' s that old fleec ? '' he cri at length , widen hi leg still further , as if to form a more secur base for hi supper ; and , at the same time dart hi fork into the dish , as if stab with hi lanc ; `` cook , you cook ! -- sail thi way , cook ! '' the old black , not in ani veri high glee at have been previous rous from hi warm hammock at a most unseason hour , came shambl along from hi galley , for , like mani old black , there wa someth the matter with hi knee - pan , which he did not keep well scour like hi other pan ; thi old fleec , as they call him , came shuffl and limp along , assist hi step with hi tong , which , after a clumsi fashion , were made of straighten iron hoop ; thi old eboni flounder along , and in obedi to the word of command , came to a dead stop on the opposit side of stubb ' s sideboard ; when , with both hand fold befor him , and rest on hi two - leg cane , he bow hi arch back still further over , at the same time sideway inclin hi head , so as to bring hi best ear into play . `` cook , '' said stubb , rapidli lift a rather reddish morsel to hi mouth , `` don ' t you think thi steak is rather overdon ? you ' ve been beat thi steak too much , cook ; it ' s too tender . don ' t I alway say that to be good , a whale - steak must be tough ? there are those shark now over the side , don ' t you see they prefer it tough and rare ? what a shindi they are kick up ! cook , go and talk to ' em ; tell ' em they are welcom to help themselv civilli , and in moder , but they must keep quiet . blast me , if I can hear my own voic . away , cook , and deliv my messag . here , take thi lantern , '' snatch one from hi sideboard ; `` now then , go and preach to ' em ! '' sullenli take the offer lantern , old fleec limp across the deck to the bulwark ; and then , with one hand drop hi light low over the sea , so as to get a good view of hi congreg , with the other hand he solemnli flourish hi tong , and lean far over the side in a mumbl voic began address the shark , while stubb , softli crawl behind , overheard all that wa said . `` fellow - critter : I ' se order here to say dat you must stop dat dam nois dare . you hear ? stop dat dam smackin ' ob de lip ! massa stubb say dat you can fill your dam belli up to de hatch , but by gor ! you must stop dat dam racket ! '' `` cook , '' here interpos stubb , accompani the word with a sudden slap on the shoulder , -- '' cook ! whi , damn your eye , you mustn ' t swear that way when you ' re preach . that ' s no way to convert sinner , cook ! '' `` who dat ? den preach to him yourself , '' sullenli turn to go . `` No , cook ; go on , go on . '' `` well , den , belub fellow - critter : '' - `` right ! '' exclaim stubb , approvingli , `` coax ' em to it ; tri that , '' and fleec continu . `` Do you is all shark , and by natur weri woraci , yet I zay to you , fellow - critter , dat dat woraci -- ' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! how you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ? '' `` cook , '' cri stubb , collar him , `` I won ' t have that swear . talk to ' em gentlemanli . '' onc more the sermon proceed . `` your woraci , fellow - critter , I don ' t blame ye so much for ; dat is natur , and can ' t be help ; but to gobern dat wick natur , dat is de pint . you is shark , sartin ; but if you gobern de shark in you , whi den you be angel ; for all angel is not ' ing more dan de shark well gobern . now , look here , bred ' ren , just tri wonst to be cibil , a help yourselb from dat whale . don ' t be tearin ' de blubber out your neighbour ' s mout , I say . Is not one shark dood right as toder to dat whale ? and , by gor , none on you ha de right to dat whale ; dat whale belong to some one els . I know some o ' you ha berri brig mout , brigger dan oder ; but den de brig mout sometim ha de small belli ; so dat de brig of de mout is not to swaller wid , but to bit off de blubber for de small fri ob shark , dat can ' t get into de scroug to help demselv . '' `` well done , old fleec ! '' cri stubb , `` that ' s christian ; go on . '' `` No use goin ' on ; de dam willain will keep a scougin ' and slappin ' each oder , massa stubb ; dey don ' t hear one word ; no use a - preach to such dam g ' utton as you call ' em , till dare belli is full , and dare belli is bottomless ; and when dey do get ' em full , dey wont hear you den ; for den dey sink in the sea , go fast to sleep on de coral , and can ' t hear note at all , no more , for eber and eber . '' `` upon my soul , I am about of the same opinion ; so give the benedict , fleec , and I ' ll away to my supper . '' upon thi , fleec , hold both hand over the fishi mob , rais hi shrill voic , and cri -- `` cuss fellow - critter ! kick up de damndest row as ever you can ; fill your dam belli ' till dey bust -- and den die . '' `` now , cook , '' said stubb , resum hi supper at the capstan ; `` stand just where you stood befor , there , over against me , and pay particular attent . '' `` all ' dention , '' said fleec , again stoop over upon hi tong in the desir posit . `` well , '' said stubb , help himself freeli meanwhil ; `` I shall now go back to the subject of thi steak . In the first place , how old are you , cook ? '' `` what dat do wid de ' teak , '' said the old black , testili . `` silenc ! how old are you , cook ? '' `` ' bout nineti , dey say , '' he gloomili mutter . `` and you have live in thi world hard upon one hundr year , cook , and don ' t know yet how to cook a whale - steak ? '' rapidli bolt anoth mouth at the last word , so that morsel seem a continu of the question . `` where were you born , cook ? '' `` ' hind de hatchway , in ferri - boat , goin ' ober de roanok . '' `` born in a ferri - boat ! that ' s queer , too . but I want to know what countri you were born in , cook ! '' `` didn ' t I say de roanok countri ? '' he cri sharpli . `` No , you didn ' t , cook ; but I ' ll tell you what I ' m come to , cook . you must go home and be born over again ; you don ' t know how to cook a whale - steak yet . '' `` bress my soul , if I cook noder one , '' he growl , angrili , turn round to depart . `` come back here , cook ; -- here , hand me those tong ; -- now take that bit of steak there , and tell me if you think that steak cook as it should be ? take it , I say `` -- hold the tong toward him -- '' take it , and tast it . '' faintli smack hi wither lip over it for a moment , the old negro mutter , `` best cook ' teak I eber tast ; joosi , berri joosi . '' `` cook , '' said stubb , squar himself onc more ; `` do you belong to the church ? '' `` pass one onc in cape - down , '' said the old man sullenli . `` and you have onc in your life pass a holi church in cape - town , where you doubtless overheard a holi parson address hi hearer as hi belov fellow - creatur , have you , cook ! and yet you come here , and tell me such a dread lie as you did just now , eh ? '' said stubb . `` where do you expect to go to , cook ? '' `` Go to bed berri soon , '' he mumbl , half - turn as he spoke . `` avast ! heav to ! I mean when you die , cook . It ' s an aw question . now what ' s your answer ? '' `` when di old brack man die , '' said the negro slowli , chang hi whole air and demeanor , `` he hisself won ' t go nowher ; but some bress angel will come and fetch him . '' `` fetch him ? how ? In a coach and four , as they fetch elijah ? and fetch him where ? '' `` Up dere , '' said fleec , hold hi tong straight over hi head , and keep it there veri solemnli . `` So , then , you expect to go up into our main - top , do you , cook , when you are dead ? but don ' t you know the higher you climb , the colder it get ? main - top , eh ? '' `` didn ' t say dat t ' all , '' said fleec , again in the sulk . `` you said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tong are point . but , perhap you expect to get into heaven by crawl through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rig . It ' s a ticklish busi , but must be done , or els it ' s no go . but none of us are in heaven yet . drop your tong , cook , and hear my order . Do ye hear ? hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m give my order , cook . what ! that your heart , there ? -- that ' s your gizzard ! aloft ! aloft ! -- that ' s it -- now you have it . hold it there now , and pay attent . '' `` all ' dention , '' said the old black , with both hand place as desir , vainli wriggl hi grizzl head , as if to get both ear in front at one and the same time . `` well then , cook , you see thi whale - steak of your wa so veri bad , that I have put it out of sight as soon as possibl ; you see that , don ' t you ? well , for the futur , when you cook anoth whale - steak for my privat tabl here , the capstan , I ' ll tell you what to do so as not to spoil it by overdo . hold the steak in one hand , and show a live coal to it with the other ; that done , dish it ; d ' ye hear ? and now to - morrow , cook , when we are cut in the fish , be sure you stand by to get the tip of hi fin ; have them put in pickl . As for the end of the fluke , have them sous , cook . there , now ye may go . '' but fleec had hardli got three pace off , when he wa recal . `` cook , give me cutlet for supper to - morrow night in the mid - watch . D ' ye hear ? away you sail , then . -- halloa ! stop ! make a bow befor you go . -- avast heav again ! whale - ball for breakfast -- don ' t forget . '' `` wish , by gor ! whale eat him , ' stead of him eat whale . I ' m bress if he ain ' t more of shark dan massa shark hisself , '' mutter the old man , limp away ; with which sage ejacul he went to hi hammock . chapter 65 the whale as a dish . that mortal man should feed upon the creatur that feed hi lamp , and , like stubb , eat him by hi own light , as you may say ; thi seem so outlandish a thing that one must need go a littl into the histori and philosophi of it . It is upon record , that three centuri ago the tongu of the right whale wa esteem a great delicaci in franc , and command larg price there . also , that in henri viiith ' s time , a certain cook of the court obtain a handsom reward for invent an admir sauc to be eaten with barbacu porpois , which , you rememb , are a speci of whale . porpois , inde , are to thi day consid fine eat . the meat is made into ball about the size of billiard ball , and be well season and spice might be taken for turtl - ball or veal ball . the old monk of dunfermlin were veri fond of them . they had a great porpois grant from the crown . the fact is , that among hi hunter at least , the whale would by all hand be consid a nobl dish , were there not so much of him ; but when you come to sit down befor a meat - pie nearli one hundr feet long , it take away your appetit . onli the most unprejud of men like stubb , nowaday partak of cook whale ; but the esquimaux are not so fastidi . We all know how they live upon whale , and have rare old vintag of prime old train oil . zogranda , one of their most famou doctor , recommend strip of blubber for infant , as be exceedingli juici and nourish . and thi remind me that certain englishmen , who long ago were accident left in greenland by a whale vessel -- that these men actual live for sever month on the mouldi scrap of whale which had been left ashor after tri out the blubber . among the dutch whalemen these scrap are call `` fritter `` ; which , inde , they greatli resembl , be brown and crisp , and smell someth like old amsterdam housew ' dough - nut or oli - cook , when fresh . they have such an eatabl look that the most self - deni stranger can hardli keep hi hand off . but what further depreci the whale as a civil dish , is hi exceed rich . He is the great prize ox of the sea , too fat to be delic good . look at hi hump , which would be as fine eat as the buffalo ' s ( which is esteem a rare dish ) , were it not such a solid pyramid of fat . but the spermaceti itself , how bland and creami that is ; like the transpar , half - jelli , white meat of a cocoanut in the third month of it growth , yet far too rich to suppli a substitut for butter . nevertheless , mani whalemen have a method of absorb it into some other substanc , and then partak of it . In the long tri watch of the night it is a common thing for the seamen to dip their ship - biscuit into the huge oil - pot and let them fri there awhil . mani a good supper have I thu made . In the case of a small sperm whale the brain are account a fine dish . the casket of the skull is broken into with an axe , and the two plump , whitish lobe be withdrawn ( precis resembl two larg pud ) , they are then mix with flour , and cook into a most delect mess , in flavor somewhat resembl calv ' head , which is quit a dish among some epicur ; and everi one know that some young buck among the epicur , by continu dine upon calv ' brain , by and by get to have a littl brain of their own , so as to be abl to tell a calf ' s head from their own head ; which , inde , requir uncommon discrimin . and that is the reason whi a young buck with an intellig look calf ' s head befor him , is somehow one of the saddest sight you can see . the head look a sort of reproach at him , with an `` Et tu brute ! '' express . It is not , perhap , entir becaus the whale is so excess unctuou that landsmen seem to regard the eat of him with abhorr ; that appear to result , in some way , from the consider befor mention : i . e . that a man should eat a newli murder thing of the sea , and eat it too by it own light . but no doubt the first man that ever murder an ox wa regard as a murder ; perhap he wa hung ; and if he had been put on hi trial by oxen , he certainli would have been ; and he certainli deserv it if ani murder doe . Go to the meat - market of a saturday night and see the crowd of live bipe stare up at the long row of dead quadrup . doe not that sight take a tooth out of the cannib ' s jaw ? cannib ? who is not a cannib ? I tell you it will be more toler for the feje that salt down a lean missionari in hi cellar against a come famin ; it will be more toler for that provid feje , I say , in the day of judgment , than for thee , civil and enlighten gourmand , who nailest gees to the ground and feastest on their bloat liver in thi pate - de - foie - gra . but stubb , he eat the whale by it own light , doe he ? and that is ad insult to injuri , is it ? look at your knife - handl , there , my civil and enlighten gourmand dine off that roast beef , what is that handl made of ? -- what but the bone of the brother of the veri ox you are eat ? and what do you pick your teeth with , after devour that fat goos ? with a feather of the same fowl . and with what quill did the secretari of the societi for the suppress of cruelti to gander formal indit hi circular ? It is onli within the last month or two that that societi pass a resolut to patronis noth but steel pen . chapter 66 the shark massacr . when in the southern fisheri , a captur sperm whale , after long and weari toil , is brought alongsid late at night , it is not , as a gener thing at least , customari to proceed at onc to the busi of cut him in . for that busi is an exceedingli labori one ; is not veri soon complet ; and requir all hand to set about it . therefor , the common usag is to take in all sail ; lash the helm a ' lee ; and then send everi one below to hi hammock till daylight , with the reserv that , until that time , anchor - watch shall be kept ; that is , two and two for an hour , each coupl , the crew in rotat shall mount the deck to see that all goe well . but sometim , especi upon the line in the pacif , thi plan will not answer at all ; becaus such incalcul host of shark gather round the moor carcas , that were he left so for six hour , say , on a stretch , littl more than the skeleton would be visibl by morn . In most other part of the ocean , howev , where these fish do not so larg abound , their wondrou vorac can be at time consider diminish , by vigor stir them up with sharp whale - spade , a procedur notwithstand , which , in some instanc , onli seem to tickl them into still greater activ . but it wa not thu in the present case with the pequod ' s shark ; though , to be sure , ani man unaccustom to such sight , to have look over her side that night , would have almost thought the whole round sea wa one huge chees , and those shark the maggot in it . nevertheless , upon stubb set the anchor - watch after hi supper wa conclud ; and when , accordingli , queequeg and a forecastl seaman came on deck , no small excit wa creat among the shark ; for immedi suspend the cut stage over the side , and lower three lantern , so that they cast long gleam of light over the turbid sea , these two marin , dart their long whale - spade , kept up an incess murder of the shark , * by strike the keen steel deep into their skull , seemingli their onli vital part . but in the foami confus of their mix and struggl host , the marksmen could not alway hit their mark ; and thi brought about new revel of the incred feroc of the foe . they vicious snap , not onli at each other ' s disembowel , but like flexibl bow , bent round , and bit their own ; till those entrail seem swallow over and over again by the same mouth , to be opposit void by the gape wound . nor wa thi all . It wa unsaf to meddl with the corps and ghost of these creatur . A sort of gener or pantheist vital seem to lurk in their veri joint and bone , after what might be call the individu life had depart . kill and hoist on deck for the sake of hi skin , one of these shark almost took poor queequeg ' s hand off , when he tri to shut down the dead lid of hi murder jaw . * the whale - spade use for cut - in is made of the veri best steel ; is about the big of a man ' s spread hand ; and in gener shape , correspond to the garden implement after which it is name ; onli it side are perfectli flat , and it upper end consider narrow than the lower . thi weapon is alway kept as sharp as possibl ; and when be use is occasion hone , just like a razor . In it socket , a stiff pole , from twenti to thirti feet long , is insert for a handl . `` queequeg no care what god made him shark , '' said the savag , agonizingli lift hi hand up and down ; `` wedder feje god or nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam ingin . '' chapter 67 cut In . It wa a saturday night , and such a sabbath as follow ! Ex officio professor of sabbath break are all whalemen . the ivori pequod wa turn into what seem a shambl ; everi sailor a butcher . you would have thought we were offer up ten thousand red oxen to the sea god . In the first place , the enorm cut tackl , among other ponder thing compris a cluster of block gener paint green , and which no singl man can possibl lift -- thi vast bunch of grape wa sway up to the main - top and firmli lash to the lower mast - head , the strongest point anywher abov a ship ' s deck . the end of the hawser - like rope wind through these intricaci , wa then conduct to the windlass , and the huge lower block of the tackl wa swung over the whale ; to thi block the great blubber hook , weigh some one hundr pound , wa attach . and now suspend in stage over the side , starbuck and stubb , the mate , arm with their long spade , began cut a hole in the bodi for the insert of the hook just abov the nearest of the two side - fin . thi done , a broad , semicircular line is cut round the hole , the hook is insert , and the main bodi of the crew strike up a wild choru , now commenc heav in one dens crowd at the windlass . when instantli , the entir ship careen over on her side ; everi bolt in her start like the nail - head of an old hous in frosti weather ; she trembl , quiver , and nod her fright mast - head to the sky . more and more she lean over to the whale , while everi gasp heav of the windlass is answer by a help heav from the billow ; till at last , a swift , startl snap is heard ; with a great swash the ship roll upward and backward from the whale , and the triumphant tackl rise into sight drag after it the disengag semicircular end of the first strip of blubber . now as the blubber envelop the whale precis as the rind doe an orang , so is it strip off from the bodi precis as an orang is sometim strip by spiral it . for the strain constantli kept up by the windlass continu keep the whale roll over and over in the water , and as the blubber in one strip uniformli peel off along the line call the `` scarf , '' simultan cut by the spade of starbuck and stubb , the mate ; and just as fast as it is thu peel off , and inde by that veri act itself , it is all the time be hoist higher and higher aloft till it upper end graze the main - top ; the men at the windlass then ceas heav , and for a moment or two the prodigi blood - drip mass sway to and fro as if let down from the sky , and everi one present must take good heed to dodg it when it swing , els it may box hi ear and pitch him headlong overboard . one of the attend harpoon now advanc with a long , keen weapon call a board - sword , and watch hi chanc he dexter slice out a consider hole in the lower part of the sway mass . into thi hole , the end of the second altern great tackl is then hook so as to retain a hold upon the blubber , in order to prepar for what follow . whereupon , thi accomplish swordsman , warn all hand to stand off , onc more make a scientif dash at the mass , and with a few sidelong , desper , lung slice , sever it complet in twain ; so that while the short lower part is still fast , the long upper strip , call a blanket - piec , swing clear , and is all readi for lower . the heaver forward now resum their song , and while the one tackl is peel and hoist a second strip from the whale , the other is slowli slacken away , and down goe the first strip through the main hatchway right beneath , into an unfurnish parlor call the blubber - room . into thi twilight apart sundri nimbl hand keep coil away the long blanket - piec as if it were a great live mass of plait serpent . and thu the work proce ; the two tackl hoist and lower simultan ; both whale and windlass heav , the heaver sing , the blubber - room gentlemen coil , the mate scarf , the ship strain , and all hand swear occasion , by way of assuag the gener friction . chapter 68 the blanket . I have given no small attent to that not unvex subject , the skin of the whale . I have had controversi about it with experienc whalemen afloat , and learn naturalist ashor . My origin opinion remain unchang ; but it is onli an opinion . the question is , what and where is the skin of the whale ? alreadi you know what hi blubber is . that blubber is someth of the consist of firm , close - grain beef , but tougher , more elast and compact , and rang from eight or ten to twelv and fifteen inch in thick . now , howev preposter it may at first seem to talk of ani creatur ' s skin as be of that sort of consist and thick , yet in point of fact these are no argument against such a presumpt ; becaus you can not rais ani other dens envelop layer from the whale ' s bodi but that same blubber ; and the outermost envelop layer of ani anim , if reason dens , what can that be but the skin ? true , from the unmar dead bodi of the whale , you may scrape off with your hand an infinit thin , transpar substanc , somewhat resembl the thinnest shred of isinglass , onli it is almost as flexibl and soft as satin ; that is , previou to be dri , when it not onli contract and thicken , but becom rather hard and brittl . I have sever such dri bit , which I use for mark in my whale - book . It is transpar , as I said befor ; and be laid upon the print page , I have sometim pleas myself with fanci it exert a magnifi influenc . At ani rate , it is pleasant to read about whale through their own spectacl , as you may say . but what I am drive at here is thi . that same infinit thin , isinglass substanc , which , I admit , invest the entir bodi of the whale , is not so much to be regard as the skin of the creatur , as the skin of the skin , so to speak ; for it were simpli ridicul to say , that the proper skin of the tremend whale is thinner and more tender than the skin of a new - born child . but no more of thi . assum the blubber to be the skin of the whale ; then , when thi skin , as in the case of a veri larg sperm whale , will yield the bulk of one hundr barrel of oil ; and , when it is consid that , in quantiti , or rather weight , that oil , in it express state , is onli three fourth , and not the entir substanc of the coat ; some idea may henc be had of the enorm of that anim mass , a mere part of whose mere integu yield such a lake of liquid as that . reckon ten barrel to the ton , you have ten ton for the net weight of onli three quarter of the stuff of the whale ' s skin . In life , the visibl surfac of the sperm whale is not the least among the mani marvel he present . almost invari it is all over obliqu cross and re - cross with numberless straight mark in thick array , someth like those in the finest italian line engrav . but these mark do not seem to be impress upon the isinglass substanc abov mention , but seem to be seen through it , as if they were engrav upon the bodi itself . nor is thi all . In some instanc , to the quick , observ eye , those linear mark , as in a verit engrav , but afford the ground for far other delin . these are hieroglyph ; that is , if you call those mysteri cypher on the wall of pyramid hieroglyph , then that is the proper word to use in the present connexion . By my retent memori of the hieroglyph upon one sperm whale in particular , I wa much struck with a plate repres the old indian charact chisel on the famou hieroglyph palisad on the bank of the upper mississippi . like those mystic rock , too , the mystic - mark whale remain undecipher . thi allus to the indian rock remind me of anoth thing . besid all the other phenomena which the exterior of the sperm whale present , he not seldom display the back , and more especi hi flank , effac in great part of the regular linear appear , by reason of numer rude scratch , altogeth of an irregular , random aspect . I should say that those new england rock on the sea - coast , which agassiz imagin to bear the mark of violent scrape contact with vast float iceberg -- I should say , that those rock must not a littl resembl the sperm whale in thi particular . It also seem to me that such scratch in the whale are probabl made by hostil contact with other whale ; for I have most remark them in the larg , full - grown bull of the speci . A word or two more concern thi matter of the skin or blubber of the whale . It ha alreadi been said , that it is stript from him in long piec , call blanket - piec . like most sea - term , thi one is veri happi and signific . for the whale is inde wrapt up in hi blubber as in a real blanket or counterpan ; or , still better , an indian poncho slipt over hi head , and skirt hi extrem . It is by reason of thi cosi blanket of hi bodi , that the whale is enabl to keep himself comfort in all weather , in all sea , time , and tide . what would becom of a greenland whale , say , in those shudder , ici sea of the north , if unsuppli with hi cosi surtout ? true , other fish are found exceedingli brisk in those hyperborean water ; but these , be it observ , are your cold - blood , lungless fish , whose veri belli are refriger ; creatur , that warm themselv under the lee of an iceberg , as a travel in winter would bask befor an inn fire ; wherea , like man , the whale ha lung and warm blood . freez hi blood , and he die . how wonder is it then -- except after explan -- that thi great monster , to whom corpor warmth is as indispens as it is to man ; how wonder that he should be found at home , immers to hi lip for life in those arctic water ! where , when seamen fall overboard , they are sometim found , month afterward , perpendicularli frozen into the heart of field of ice , as a fli is found glu in amber . but more surpris is it to know , as ha been prove by experi , that the blood of a polar whale is warmer than that of a borneo negro in summer . It doe seem to me , that herein we see the rare virtu of a strong individu vital , and the rare virtu of thick wall , and the rare virtu of interior spacious . Oh , man ! admir and model thyself after the whale ! Do thou , too , remain warm among ice . Do thou , too , live in thi world without be of it . Be cool at the equat ; keep thi blood fluid at the pole . like the great dome of St . peter ' s , and like the great whale , retain , O man ! in all season a temperatur of thine own . but how easi and how hopeless to teach these fine thing ! Of erect , how few are dome like St . peter ' s ! of creatur , how few vast as the whale ! chapter 69 the funer . haul in the chain ! let the carcas go astern ! the vast tackl have now done their duti . the peel white bodi of the behead whale flash like a marbl sepulchr ; though chang in hue , it ha not percept lost anyth in bulk . It is still coloss . slowli it float more and more away , the water round it torn and splash by the insati shark , and the air abov vex with rapaci flight of scream fowl , whose beak are like so mani insult poniard in the whale . the vast white headless phantom float further and further from the ship , and everi rod that it so float , what seem squar rood of shark and cubic rood of fowl , augment the murder din . for hour and hour from the almost stationari ship that hideou sight is seen . beneath the uncloud and mild azur sky , upon the fair face of the pleasant sea , waft by the joyou breez , that great mass of death float on and on , till lost in infinit perspect . there ' s a most dole and most mock funer ! the sea - vultur all in piou mourn , the air - shark all punctili in black or speckl . In life but few of them would have help the whale , I ween , if peradventur he had need it ; but upon the banquet of hi funer they most piousli do pounc . Oh , horribl vultur of earth ! from which not the mightiest whale is free . nor is thi the end . desecr as the bodi is , a veng ghost surviv and hover over it to scare . espi by some timid man - of - war or blunder discoveri - vessel from afar , when the distanc obscur the swarm fowl , nevertheless still show the white mass float in the sun , and the white spray heav high against it ; straightway the whale ' s unharm corps , with trembl finger is set down in the log -- shoal , rock , and breaker hereabout : bewar ! and for year afterward , perhap , ship shun the place ; leap over it as silli sheep leap over a vacuum , becaus their leader origin leap there when a stick wa held . there ' s your law of preced ; there ' s your util of tradit ; there ' s the stori of your obstin surviv of old belief never bottom on the earth , and now not even hover in the air ! there ' s orthodoxi ! thu , while in life the great whale ' s bodi may have been a real terror to hi foe , in hi death hi ghost becom a powerless panic to a world . are you a believ in ghost , my friend ? there are other ghost than the cock - lane one , and far deeper men than doctor johnson who believ in them . chapter 70 the sphynx . It should not have been omit that previou to complet strip the bodi of the leviathan , he wa behead . now , the behead of the sperm whale is a scientif anatom feat , upon which experienc whale surgeon veri much pride themselv : and not without reason . consid that the whale ha noth that can properli be call a neck ; on the contrari , where hi head and bodi seem to join , there , in that veri place , is the thickest part of him . rememb , also , that the surgeon must oper from abov , some eight or ten feet interven between him and hi subject , and that subject almost hidden in a discolour , roll , and oftentim tumultu and burst sea . bear in mind , too , that under these untoward circumst he ha to cut mani feet deep in the flesh ; and in that subterran manner , without so much as get one singl peep into the ever - contract gash thu made , he must skil steer clear of all adjac , interdict part , and exactli divid the spine at a critic point hard by it insert into the skull . Do you not marvel , then , at stubb ' s boast , that he demand but ten minut to behead a sperm whale ? when first sever , the head is drop astern and held there by a cabl till the bodi is strip . that done , if it belong to a small whale it is hoist on deck to be deliber dispos of . but , with a full grown leviathan thi is imposs ; for the sperm whale ' s head embrac nearli one third of hi entir bulk , and complet to suspend such a burden as that , even by the immens tackl of a whaler , thi were as vain a thing as to attempt weigh a dutch barn in jewel ' scale . the pequod ' s whale be decapit and the bodi strip , the head wa hoist against the ship ' s side -- about half way out of the sea , so that it might yet in great part be buoy up by it nativ element . and there with the strain craft steepli lean over to it , by reason of the enorm downward drag from the lower mast - head , and everi yard - arm on that side project like a crane over the wave ; there , that blood - drip head hung to the pequod ' s waist like the giant holofern ' s from the girdl of judith . when thi last task wa accomplish it wa noon , and the seamen went below to their dinner . silenc reign over the befor tumultu but now desert deck . An intens copper calm , like a univers yellow lotu , wa more and more unfold it noiseless measureless leav upon the sea . A short space elaps , and up into thi noiseless came ahab alon from hi cabin . take a few turn on the quarter - deck , he paus to gaze over the side , then slowli get into the main - chain he took stubb ' s long spade -- still remain there after the whale ' s decapit -- and strike it into the lower part of the half - suspend mass , place it other end crutch - wise under one arm , and so stood lean over with eye attent fix on thi head . It wa a black and hood head ; and hang there in the midst of so intens a calm , it seem the sphynx ' s in the desert . `` speak , thou vast and vener head , '' mutter ahab , `` which , though ungarnish with a beard , yet here and there lookest hoari with moss ; speak , mighti head , and tell us the secret thing that is in thee . Of all diver , thou hast dive the deepest . that head upon which the upper sun now gleam , ha move amid thi world ' s foundat . where unrecord name and navi rust , and untold hope and anchor rot ; where in her murder hold thi frigat earth is ballast with bone of million of the drown ; there , in that aw water - land , there wa thi most familiar home . thou hast been where bell or diver never went ; hast slept by mani a sailor ' s side , where sleepless mother would give their live to lay them down . thou saw ' st the lock lover when leap from their flame ship ; heart to heart they sank beneath the exult wave ; true to each other , when heaven seem fals to them . thou saw ' st the murder mate when toss by pirat from the midnight deck ; for hour he fell into the deeper midnight of the insati maw ; and hi murder still sail on unharm -- while swift lightn shiver the neighbor ship that would have born a righteou husband to outstretch , long arm . O head ! thou hast seen enough to split the planet and make an infidel of abraham , and not one syllabl is thine ! '' `` sail ho ! '' cri a triumphant voic from the main - mast - head . `` aye ? well , now , that ' s cheer , '' cri ahab , suddenli erect himself , while whole thunder - cloud swept asid from hi brow . `` that live cri upon thi deadli calm might almost convert a better man . -- where away ? '' `` three point on the starboard bow , sir , and bring down her breez to us ! `` better and better , man . would now St . paul would come along that way , and to my breezeless bring hi breez ! O natur , and O soul of man ! how far beyond all utter are your link analog ! not the smallest atom stir or live on matter , but ha it cun duplic in mind . '' chapter 71 the jeroboam ' s stori . hand in hand , ship and breez blew on ; but the breez came faster than the ship , and soon the pequod began to rock . By and by , through the glass the stranger ' s boat and man mast - head prove her a whale - ship . but as she wa so far to windward , and shoot by , appar make a passag to some other ground , the pequod could not hope to reach her . So the signal wa set to see what respons would be made . here be it said , that like the vessel of militari marin , the ship of the american whale fleet have each a privat signal ; all which signal be collect in a book with the name of the respect vessel attach , everi captain is provid with it . therebi , the whale command are enabl to recognis each other upon the ocean , even at consider distanc and with no small facil . the pequod ' s signal wa at last respond to by the stranger ' s set her own ; which prove the ship to be the jeroboam of nantucket . squar her yard , she bore down , rang abeam under the pequod ' s lee , and lower a boat ; it soon drew nigh ; but , as the side - ladder wa be rig by starbuck ' s order to accommod the visit captain , the stranger in question wave hi hand from hi boat ' s stern in token of that proceed be entir unnecessari . It turn out that the jeroboam had a malign epidem on board , and that mayhew , her captain , wa fear of infect the pequod ' s compani . for , though himself and boat ' s crew remain untaint , and though hi ship wa half a rifl - shot off , and an incorrupt sea and air roll and flow between ; yet conscienti adher to the timid quarantin of the land , he peremptorili refus to come into direct contact with the pequod . but thi did by no mean prevent all commun . preserv an interv of some few yard between itself and the ship , the jeroboam ' s boat by the occasion use of it oar contriv to keep parallel to the pequod , as she heavili forg through the sea ( for by thi time it blew veri fresh ) , with her main - topsail aback ; though , inde , at time by the sudden onset of a larg roll wave , the boat would be push some way ahead ; but would be soon skil brought to her proper bear again . subject to thi , and other the like interrupt now and then , a convers wa sustain between the two parti ; but at interv not without still anoth interrupt of a veri differ sort . pull an oar in the jeroboam ' s boat , wa a man of a singular appear , even in that wild whale life where individu notabl make up all total . He wa a small , short , youngish man , sprinkl all over hi face with freckl , and wear redund yellow hair . A long - skirt , cabalist - cut coat of a fade walnut ting envelop him ; the overlap sleev of which were roll up on hi wrist . A deep , settl , fanat delirium wa in hi eye . So soon as thi figur had been first descri , stubb had exclaim -- '' that ' s he ! that ' s he ! -- the long - tog scaramouch the town - Ho ' s compani told us of ! '' stubb here allud to a strang stori told of the jeroboam , and a certain man among her crew , some time previou when the pequod spoke the town - Ho . accord to thi account and what wa subsequ learn , it seem that the scaramouch in question had gain a wonder ascend over almost everybodi in the jeroboam . hi stori wa thi : He had been origin nurtur among the crazi societi of neskyeuna shaker , where he had been a great prophet ; in their crack , secret meet have sever time descend from heaven by the way of a trap - door , announc the speedi open of the seventh vial , which he carri in hi vest - pocket ; but , which , instead of contain gunpowd , wa suppos to be charg with laudanum . A strang , apostol whim have seiz him , he had left neskyeuna for nantucket , where , with that cun peculiar to crazi , he assum a steadi , common - sens exterior , and offer himself as a green - hand candid for the jeroboam ' s whale voyag . they engag him ; but straightway upon the ship ' s get out of sight of land , hi insan broke out in a freshet . He announc himself as the archangel gabriel , and command the captain to jump overboard . He publish hi manifesto , wherebi he set himself forth as the deliver of the isl of the sea and vicar - gener of all oceanica . the unflinch earnest with which he declar these thing ; -- the dark , dare play of hi sleepless , excit imagin , and all the preternatur terror of real delirium , unit to invest thi gabriel in the mind of the major of the ignor crew , with an atmospher of sacred . moreov , they were afraid of him . As such a man , howev , wa not of much practic use in the ship , especi as he refus to work except when he pleas , the incredul captain would fain have been rid of him ; but appris that that individu ' s intent wa to land him in the first conveni port , the archangel forthwith open all hi seal and vial -- devot the ship and all hand to uncondit perdit , in case thi intent wa carri out . So strongli did he work upon hi discipl among the crew , that at last in a bodi they went to the captain and told him if gabriel wa sent from the ship , not a man of them would remain . He wa therefor forc to relinquish hi plan . nor would they permit gabriel to be ani way maltreat , say or do what he would ; so that it came to pass that gabriel had the complet freedom of the ship . the consequ of all thi wa , that the archangel care littl or noth for the captain and mate ; and sinc the epidem had broken out , he carri a higher hand than ever ; declar that the plagu , as he call it , wa at hi sole command ; nor should it be stay but accord to hi good pleasur . the sailor , mostli poor devil , cring , and some of them fawn befor him ; in obedi to hi instruct , sometim render him person homag , as to a god . such thing may seem incred ; but , howev wondrou , they are true . nor is the histori of fanat half so strike in respect to the measureless self - decept of the fanat himself , as hi measureless power of deceiv and bedevil so mani other . but it is time to return to the pequod . `` I fear not thi epidem , man , '' said ahab from the bulwark , to captain mayhew , who stood in the boat ' s stern ; `` come on board . '' but now gabriel start to hi feet . `` think , think of the fever , yellow and biliou ! bewar of the horribl plagu ! '' `` gabriel ! gabriel ! '' cri captain mayhew ; `` thou must either -- '' but that instant a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead , and it seeth drown all speech . `` hast thou seen the white whale ? '' demand ahab , when the boat drift back . `` think , think of thi whale - boat , stoven and sunk ! bewar of the horribl tail ! '' `` I tell thee again , gabriel , that -- '' but again the boat tore ahead as if drag by fiend . noth wa said for some moment , while a success of riotou wave roll by , which by one of those occasion capric of the sea were tumbl , not heav it . meantim , the hoist sperm whale ' s head jog about veri violent , and gabriel wa seen eye it with rather more apprehens than hi archangel natur seem to warrant . when thi interlud wa over , captain mayhew began a dark stori concern mobi dick ; not , howev , without frequent interrupt from gabriel , whenev hi name wa mention , and the crazi sea that seem leagu with him . It seem that the jeroboam had not long left home , when upon speak a whale - ship , her peopl were reliabl appris of the exist of mobi dick , and the havoc he had made . greedili suck in thi intellig , gabriel solemnli warn the captain against attack the white whale , in case the monster should be seen ; in hi gibber insan , pronounc the white whale to be no less a be than the shaker god incarn ; the shaker receiv the bibl . but when , some year or two afterward , mobi dick wa fairli sight from the mast - head , macey , the chief mate , burn with ardour to encount him ; and the captain himself be not unwil to let him have the opportun , despit all the archangel ' s denunci and forewarn , macey succeed in persuad five men to man hi boat . with them he push off ; and , after much weari pull , and mani peril , unsuccess onset , he at last succeed in get one iron fast . meantim , gabriel , ascend to the main - royal mast - head , wa toss one arm in frantic gestur , and hurl forth propheci of speedi doom to the sacrilegi assail of hi divin . now , while macey , the mate , wa stand up in hi boat ' s bow , and with all the reckless energi of hi tribe wa vent hi wild exclam upon the whale , and essay to get a fair chanc for hi pois lanc , lo ! a broad white shadow rose from the sea ; by it quick , fan motion , temporarili take the breath out of the bodi of the oarsmen . next instant , the luckless mate , so full of furiou life , wa smitten bodili into the air , and make a long arc in hi descent , fell into the sea at the distanc of about fifti yard . not a chip of the boat wa harm , nor a hair of ani oarsman ' s head ; but the mate for ever sank . It is well to parenthes here , that of the fatal accid in the sperm - whale fisheri , thi kind is perhap almost as frequent as ani . sometim , noth is injur but the man who is thu annihil ; often the boat ' s bow is knock off , or the thigh - board , in which the headsman stand , is torn from it place and accompani the bodi . but strangest of all is the circumst , that in more instanc than one , when the bodi ha been recov , not a singl mark of violenc is discern ; the man be stark dead . the whole calam , with the fall form of macey , wa plainli descri from the ship . rais a pierc shriek -- '' the vial ! the vial ! '' gabriel call off the terror - stricken crew from the further hunt of the whale . thi terribl event cloth the archangel with ad influenc ; becaus hi credul discipl believ that he had specif fore - announc it , instead of onli make a gener propheci , which ani one might have done , and so have chanc to hit one of mani mark in the wide margin allow . He becam a nameless terror to the ship . mayhew have conclud hi narrat , ahab put such question to him , that the stranger captain could not forbear inquir whether he intend to hunt the white whale , if opportun should offer . To which ahab answer -- '' aye . '' straightway , then , gabriel onc more start to hi feet , glare upon the old man , and vehement exclaim , with downward point finger -- '' think , think of the blasphem -- dead , and down there ! -- bewar of the blasphem ' s end ! '' ahab stolidli turn asid ; then said to mayhew , `` captain , I have just bethought me of my letter - bag ; there is a letter for one of thi offic , if I mistak not . starbuck , look over the bag . '' everi whale - ship take out a goodli number of letter for variou ship , whose deliveri to the person to whom they may be address , depend upon the mere chanc of encount them in the four ocean . thu , most letter never reach their mark ; and mani are onli receiv after attain an age of two or three year or more . soon starbuck return with a letter in hi hand . It wa sore tumbl , damp , and cover with a dull , spot , green mould , in consequ of be kept in a dark locker of the cabin . Of such a letter , death himself might well have been the post - boy . `` can ' st not read it ? '' cri ahab . `` give it me , man . aye , aye , it ' s but a dim scrawl ; -- what ' s thi ? '' As he wa studi it out , starbuck took a long cut - spade pole , and with hi knife slightli split the end , to insert the letter there , and in that way , hand it to the boat , without it come ani closer to the ship . meantim , ahab hold the letter , mutter , `` Mr . har -- ye , Mr . harri -- ( a woman ' s pinni hand , -- the man ' s wife , I ' ll wager ) -- aye -- Mr . harri macey , ship jeroboam ; -- whi it ' s macey , and he ' s dead ! '' `` poor fellow ! poor fellow ! and from hi wife , '' sigh mayhew ; `` but let me have it . '' `` nay , keep it thyself , '' cri gabriel to ahab ; `` thou art soon go that way . '' `` curs throttl thee ! '' yell ahab . `` captain mayhew , stand by now to receiv it `` ; and take the fatal missiv from starbuck ' s hand , he caught it in the slit of the pole , and reach it over toward the boat . but as he did so , the oarsmen expectantli desist from row ; the boat drift a littl toward the ship ' s stern ; so that , as if by magic , the letter suddenli rang along with gabriel ' s eager hand . He clutch it in an instant , seiz the boat - knife , and impal the letter on it , sent it thu load back into the ship . It fell at ahab ' s feet . then gabriel shriek out to hi comrad to give way with their oar , and in that manner the mutin boat rapidli shot away from the pequod . As , after thi interlud , the seamen resum their work upon the jacket of the whale , mani strang thing were hint in refer to thi wild affair . chapter 72 the monkey - rope . In the tumultu busi of cut - in and attend to a whale , there is much run backward and forward among the crew . now hand are want here , and then again hand are want there . there is no stay in ani one place ; for at one and the same time everyth ha to be done everywher . It is much the same with him who endeavor the descript of the scene . We must now retrac our way a littl . It wa mention that upon first break ground in the whale ' s back , the blubber - hook wa insert into the origin hole there cut by the spade of the mate . but how did so clumsi and weighti a mass as that same hook get fix in that hole ? It wa insert there by my particular friend queequeg , whose duti it wa , as harpoon , to descend upon the monster ' s back for the special purpos refer to . but in veri mani case , circumst requir that the harpoon shall remain on the whale till the whole tens or strip oper is conclud . the whale , be it observ , lie almost entir submerg , except the immedi part oper upon . So down there , some ten feet below the level of the deck , the poor harpoon flounder about , half on the whale and half in the water , as the vast mass revolv like a tread - mill beneath him . On the occas in question , queequeg figur in the highland costum -- a shirt and sock -- in which to my eye , at least , he appear to uncommon advantag ; and no one had a better chanc to observ him , as will present be seen . be the savag ' s bowsman , that is , the person who pull the bow - oar in hi boat ( the second one from forward ) , it wa my cheer duti to attend upon him while take that hard - scrabbl scrambl upon the dead whale ' s back . you have seen italian organ - boy hold a danc - ape by a long cord . just so , from the ship ' s steep side , did I hold queequeg down there in the sea , by what is technic call in the fisheri a monkey - rope , attach to a strong strip of canva belt round hi waist . It wa a humor peril busi for both of us . for , befor we proceed further , it must be said that the monkey - rope wa fast at both end ; fast to queequeg ' s broad canva belt , and fast to my narrow leather one . So that for better or for wors , we two , for the time , were wed ; and should poor queequeg sink to rise no more , then both usag and honour demand , that instead of cut the cord , it should drag me down in hi wake . So , then , an elong siames ligatur unit us . queequeg wa my own insepar twin brother ; nor could I ani way get rid of the danger liabil which the hempen bond entail . So strongli and metaphys did I conceiv of my situat then , that while earnestli watch hi motion , I seem distinctli to perceiv that my own individu wa now merg in a joint stock compani of two ; that my free will had receiv a mortal wound ; and that anoth ' s mistak or misfortun might plung innoc me into unmerit disast and death . therefor , I saw that here wa a sort of interregnum in provid ; for it even - hand equiti never could have so gross an injustic . and yet still further ponder -- while I jerk him now and then from between the whale and ship , which would threaten to jam him -- still further ponder , I say , I saw that thi situat of mine wa the precis situat of everi mortal that breath ; onli , in most case , he , one way or other , ha thi siames connexion with a plural of other mortal . If your banker break , you snap ; if your apothecari by mistak send you poison in your pill , you die . true , you may say that , by exceed caution , you may possibl escap these and the multitudin other evil chanc of life . but handl queequeg ' s monkey - rope heed as I would , sometim he jerk it so , that I came veri near slide overboard . nor could I possibl forget that , do what I would , I onli had the manag of one end of it . * * the monkey - rope is found in all whaler ; but it wa onli in the pequod that the monkey and hi holder were ever tie togeth . thi improv upon the origin usag wa introduc by no less a man than stubb , in order to afford the imperil harpoon the strongest possibl guarante for the faith and vigil of hi monkey - rope holder . I have hint that I would often jerk poor queequeg from between the whale and the ship -- where he would occasion fall , from the incess roll and sway of both . but thi wa not the onli jam jeopardi he wa expos to . unappal by the massacr made upon them dure the night , the shark now freshli and more keenli allur by the befor pent blood which began to flow from the carcass -- the rabid creatur swarm round it like bee in a beehiv . and right in among those shark wa queequeg ; who often push them asid with hi flounder feet . A thing altogeth incred were it not that attract by such prey as a dead whale , the otherwis miscellan carnivor shark will seldom touch a man . nevertheless , it may well be believ that sinc they have such a raven finger in the pie , it is deem but wise to look sharp to them . accordingli , besid the monkey - rope , with which I now and then jerk the poor fellow from too close a vicin to the maw of what seem a peculiarli feroci shark -- he wa provid with still anoth protect . suspend over the side in one of the stage , tashtego and daggoo continu flourish over hi head a coupl of keen whale - spade , wherewith they slaughter as mani shark as they could reach . thi procedur of their , to be sure , wa veri disinterest and benevol of them . they meant queequeg ' s best happi , I admit ; but in their hasti zeal to befriend him , and from the circumst that both he and the shark were at time half hidden by the blood - muddl water , those indiscreet spade of their would come nearer amput a leg than a tall . but poor queequeg , I suppos , strain and gasp there with that great iron hook -- poor queequeg , I suppos , onli pray to hi yojo , and gave up hi life into the hand of hi god . well , well , my dear comrad and twin - brother , thought I , as I drew in and then slack off the rope to everi swell of the sea -- what matter it , after all ? are you not the preciou imag of each and all of us men in thi whale world ? that unsound ocean you gasp in , is life ; those shark , your foe ; those spade , your friend ; and what between shark and spade you are in a sad pickl and peril , poor lad . but courag ! there is good cheer in store for you , queequeg . for now , as with blue lip and blood - shot eye the exhaust savag at last climb up the chain and stand all drip and involuntarili trembl over the side ; the steward advanc , and with a benevol , consolatori glanc hand him -- what ? some hot cognac ? No ! hand him , ye god ! hand him a cup of tepid ginger and water ! `` ginger ? Do I smell ginger ? '' suspici ask stubb , come near . `` ye , thi must be ginger , '' peer into the as yet untast cup . then stand as if incredul for a while , he calmli walk toward the astonish steward slowli say , `` ginger ? ginger ? and will you have the good to tell me , Mr . dough - boy , where lie the virtu of ginger ? ginger ! is ginger the sort of fuel you use , dough - boy , to kindl a fire in thi shiver cannib ? ginger ! -- what the devil is ginger ? -- sea - coal ? firewood ? -- lucif match ? -- tinder ? -- gunpowd ? -- what the devil is ginger , I say , that you offer thi cup to our poor queequeg here . '' `` there is some sneak temper societi movement about thi busi , '' he suddenli ad , now approach starbuck , who had just come from forward . `` will you look at that kannakin , sir ; smell of it , if you pleas . '' then watch the mate ' s counten , he ad , `` the steward , Mr . starbuck , had the face to offer that calomel and jalap to queequeg , there , thi instant off the whale . Is the steward an apothecari , sir ? and may I ask whether thi is the sort of bitter by which he blow back the life into a half - drown man ? '' `` I trust not , '' said starbuck , `` it is poor stuff enough . '' `` aye , aye , steward , '' cri stubb , `` we ' ll teach you to drug it harpoon ; none of your apothecari ' s medicin here ; you want to poison us , do ye ? you have got out insur on our live and want to murder us all , and pocket the proce , do ye ? '' `` It wa not me , '' cri dough - boy , `` it wa aunt chariti that brought the ginger on board ; and bade me never give the harpoon ani spirit , but onli thi ginger - jub -- so she call it . '' `` ginger - jub ! you gingerli rascal ! take that ! and run along with ye to the locker , and get someth better . I hope I do no wrong , Mr . starbuck . It is the captain ' s order -- grog for the harpoon on a whale . '' `` enough , '' repli starbuck , `` onli don ' t hit him again , but -- '' `` Oh , I never hurt when I hit , except when I hit a whale or someth of that sort ; and thi fellow ' s a weazel . what were you about say , sir ? '' `` onli thi : go down with him , and get what thou wantest thyself . '' when stubb reappear , he came with a dark flask in one hand , and a sort of tea - caddi in the other . the first contain strong spirit , and wa hand to queequeg ; the second wa aunt chariti ' s gift , and that wa freeli given to the wave . chapter 73 stubb and flask kill a right whale ; and then have a talk over him . It must be born in mind that all thi time we have a sperm whale ' s prodigi head hang to the pequod ' s side . but we must let it continu hang there a while till we can get a chanc to attend to it . for the present other matter press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackl may hold . now , dure the past night and forenoon , the pequod had gradual drift into a sea , which , by it occasion patch of yellow brit , gave unusu token of the vicin of right whale , a speci of the leviathan that but few suppos to be at thi particular time lurk anywher near . and though all hand commonli disdain the captur of those inferior creatur ; and though the pequod wa not commiss to cruis for them at all , and though she had pass number of them near the crozett without lower a boat ; yet now that a sperm whale had been brought alongsid and behead , to the surpris of all , the announc wa made that a right whale should be captur that day , if opportun offer . nor wa thi long want . tall spout were seen to leeward ; and two boat , stubb ' s and flask ' s , were detach in pursuit . pull further and further away , they at last becam almost invis to the men at the mast - head . but suddenli in the distanc , they saw a great heap of tumultu white water , and soon after news came from aloft that one or both the boat must be fast . An interv pass and the boat were in plain sight , in the act of be drag right toward the ship by the tow whale . So close did the monster come to the hull , that at first it seem as if he meant it malic ; but suddenli go down in a maelstrom , within three rod of the plank , he wholli disappear from view , as if dive under the keel . `` cut , cut ! '' wa the cri from the ship to the boat , which , for one instant , seem on the point of be brought with a deadli dash against the vessel ' s side . but have plenti of line yet in the tub , and the whale not sound veri rapidli , they paid out abund of rope , and at the same time pull with all their might so as to get ahead of the ship . for a few minut the struggl wa intens critic ; for while they still slack out the tighten line in one direct , and still pli their oar in anoth , the contend strain threaten to take them under . but it wa onli a few feet advanc they sought to gain . and they stuck to it till they did gain it ; when instantli , a swift tremor wa felt run like lightn along the keel , as the strain line , scrape beneath the ship , suddenli rose to view under her bow , snap and quiver ; and so fling off it drip , that the drop fell like bit of broken glass on the water , while the whale beyond also rose to sight , and onc more the boat were free to fli . but the fag whale abat hi speed , and blindli alter hi cours , went round the stern of the ship tow the two boat after him , so that they perform a complet circuit . meantim , they haul more and more upon their line , till close flank him on both side , stubb answer flask with lanc for lanc ; and thu round and round the pequod the battl went , while the multitud of shark that had befor swum round the sperm whale ' s bodi , rush to the fresh blood that wa spill , thirstili drink at everi new gash , as the eager israelit did at the new burst fountain that pour from the smitten rock . At last hi spout grew thick , and with a fright roll and vomit , he turn upon hi back a corps . while the two headsmen were engag in make fast cord to hi fluke , and in other way get the mass in readi for tow , some convers ensu between them . `` I wonder what the old man want with thi lump of foul lard , '' said stubb , not without some disgust at the thought of have to do with so ignobl a leviathan . `` want with it ? '' said flask , coil some spare line in the boat ' s bow , `` did you never hear that the ship which but onc ha a sperm whale ' s head hoist on her starboard side , and at the same time a right whale ' s on the larboard ; did you never hear , stubb , that that ship can never afterward capsiz ? '' `` whi not ? `` I don ' t know , but I heard that gambog ghost of a fedallah say so , and he seem to know all about ship ' charm . but I sometim think he ' ll charm the ship to no good at last . I don ' t half like that chap , stubb . did you ever notic how that tusk of hi is a sort of carv into a snake ' s head , stubb ? '' `` sink him ! I never look at him at all ; but if ever I get a chanc of a dark night , and he stand hard by the bulwark , and no one by ; look down there , flask `` -- point into the sea with a peculiar motion of both hand -- '' aye , will I ! flask , I take that fedallah to be the devil in disguis . Do you believ that cock and bull stori about hi have been stow away on board ship ? He ' s the devil , I say . the reason whi you don ' t see hi tail , is becaus he tuck it up out of sight ; he carri it coil away in hi pocket , I guess . blast him ! now that I think of it , he ' s alway want oakum to stuff into the toe of hi boot . '' `` He sleep in hi boot , don ' t he ? He hasn ' t got ani hammock ; but I ' ve seen him lay of night in a coil of rig . '' `` No doubt , and it ' s becaus of hi curs tail ; he coil it down , do ye see , in the eye of the rig . '' `` what ' s the old man have so much to do with him for ? '' `` strike up a swap or a bargain , I suppos . '' `` bargain ? -- about what ? '' `` whi , do ye see , the old man is hard bent after that white whale , and the devil there is tri to come round him , and get him to swap away hi silver watch , or hi soul , or someth of that sort , and then he ' ll surrend mobi dick . '' `` pooh ! stubb , you are skylark ; how can fedallah do that ? '' `` I don ' t know , flask , but the devil is a curiou chap , and a wick one , I tell ye . whi , they say as how he went a saunter into the old flag - ship onc , switch hi tail about devilish easi and gentlemanlik , and inquir if the old governor wa at home . well , he wa at home , and ask the devil what he want . the devil , switch hi hoof , up and say , ' I want john . ' ' what for ? ' say the old governor . ' what busi is that of your , ' say the devil , get mad , -- ' I want to use him . ' ' take him , ' say the governor -- and by the lord , flask , if the devil didn ' t give john the asiat cholera befor he got through with him , I ' ll eat thi whale in one mouth . but look sharp -- ain ' t you all readi there ? well , then , pull ahead , and let ' s get the whale alongsid . '' `` I think I rememb some such stori as you were tell , '' said flask , when at last the two boat were slowli advanc with their burden toward the ship , `` but I can ' t rememb where . '' `` three spaniard ? adventur of those three bloodi - mind solado ? did ye read it there , flask ? I guess ye did ? '' `` No : never saw such a book ; heard of it , though . but now , tell me , stubb , do you suppos that that devil you wa speak of just now , wa the same you say is now on board the pequod ? '' `` Am I the same man that help kill thi whale ? doesn ' t the devil live for ever ; who ever heard that the devil wa dead ? did you ever see ani parson a wear mourn for the devil ? and if the devil ha a latch - key to get into the admir ' s cabin , don ' t you suppos he can crawl into a porthol ? tell me that , Mr . flask ? '' `` how old do you suppos fedallah is , stubb ? '' `` Do you see that mainmast there ? '' point to the ship ; `` well , that ' s the figur one ; now take all the hoop in the pequod ' s hold , and string along in a row with that mast , for ought , do you see ; well , that wouldn ' t begin to be fedallah ' s age . nor all the cooper in creation couldn ' t show hoop enough to make ought enough . '' `` but see here , stubb , I thought you a littl boast just now , that you meant to give fedallah a sea - toss , if you got a good chanc . now , if he ' s so old as all those hoop of your come to , and if he is go to live for ever , what good will it do to pitch him overboard -- tell me that ? `` give him a good duck , anyhow . '' `` but he ' d crawl back . '' `` duck him again ; and keep duck him . '' `` suppos he should take it into hi head to duck you , though -- ye , and drown you -- what then ? '' `` I should like to see him tri it ; I ' d give him such a pair of black eye that he wouldn ' t dare to show hi face in the admir ' s cabin again for a long while , let alon down in the orlop there , where he live , and hereabout on the upper deck where he sneak so much . damn the devil , flask ; so you suppos I ' m afraid of the devil ? who ' s afraid of him , except the old governor who daresn ' t catch him and put him in doubl - darbi , as he deserv , but let him go about kidnap peopl ; aye , and sign a bond with him , that all the peopl the devil kidnap , he ' d roast for him ? there ' s a governor ! '' `` Do you suppos fedallah want to kidnap captain ahab ? '' `` Do I suppos it ? you ' ll know it befor long , flask . but I am go now to keep a sharp look - out on him ; and if I see anyth veri suspici go on , I ' ll just take him by the nape of hi neck , and say -- look here , beelzebub , you don ' t do it ; and if he make ani fuss , by the lord I ' ll make a grab into hi pocket for hi tail , take it to the capstan , and give him such a wrench and heav , that hi tail will come short off at the stump -- do you see ; and then , I rather guess when he find himself dock in that queer fashion , he ' ll sneak off without the poor satisfact of feel hi tail between hi leg . '' `` and what will you do with the tail , stubb ? '' `` Do with it ? sell it for an ox whip when we get home ; -- what els ? '' `` now , do you mean what you say , and have been say all along , stubb ? '' `` mean or not mean , here we are at the ship . '' the boat were here hail , to tow the whale on the larboard side , where fluke chain and other necessari were alreadi prepar for secur him . `` didn ' t I tell you so ? '' said flask ; `` ye , you ' ll soon see thi right whale ' s head hoist up opposit that parmacetti ' s . '' In good time , flask ' s say prove true . As befor , the pequod steepli lean over toward the sperm whale ' s head , now , by the counterpois of both head , she regain her even keel ; though sore strain , you may well believ . So , when on one side you hoist in lock ' s head , you go over that way ; but now , on the other side , hoist in kant ' s and you come back again ; but in veri poor plight . thu , some mind for ever keep trim boat . Oh , ye foolish ! throw all these thunder - head overboard , and then you will float light and right . In dispos of the bodi of a right whale , when brought alongsid the ship , the same preliminari proceed commonli take place as in the case of a sperm whale ; onli , in the latter instanc , the head is cut off whole , but in the former the lip and tongu are separ remov and hoist on deck , with all the well known black bone attach to what is call the crown - piec . but noth like thi , in the present case , had been done . the carcas of both whale had drop astern ; and the head - laden ship not a littl resembl a mule carri a pair of overburden pannier . meantim , fedallah wa calmli eye the right whale ' s head , and ever and anon glanc from the deep wrinkl there to the line in hi own hand . and ahab chanc so to stand , that the parse occupi hi shadow ; while , if the parse ' s shadow wa there at all it seem onli to blend with , and lengthen ahab ' s . As the crew toil on , laplandish specul were bandi among them , concern all these pass thing . chapter 74 the sperm whale ' s head -- contrast view . here , now , are two great whale , lay their head togeth ; let us join them , and lay togeth our own . Of the grand order of folio leviathan , the sperm whale and the right whale are by far the most noteworthi . they are the onli whale regularli hunt by man . To the nantucket , they present the two extrem of all the known varieti of the whale . As the extern differ between them is mainli observ in their head ; and as a head of each is thi moment hang from the pequod ' s side ; and as we may freeli go from one to the other , by mere step across the deck : -- where , I should like to know , will you obtain a better chanc to studi practic cetolog than here ? In the first place , you are struck by the gener contrast between these head . both are massiv enough in all conscienc ; but there is a certain mathemat symmetri in the sperm whale ' s which the right whale ' s sadli lack . there is more charact in the sperm whale ' s head . As you behold it , you involuntarili yield the immens superior to him , in point of pervad digniti . In the present instanc , too , thi digniti is heighten by the pepper and salt colour of hi head at the summit , give token of advanc age and larg experi . In short , he is what the fishermen technic call a `` grey - head whale . '' let us now note what is least dissimilar in these head -- name , the two most import organ , the eye and the ear . far back on the side of the head , and low down , near the angl of either whale ' s jaw , if you narrowli search , you will at last see a lashless eye , which you would fanci to be a young colt ' s eye ; so out of all proport is it to the magnitud of the head . now , from thi peculiar sideway posit of the whale ' s eye , it is plain that he can never see an object which is exactli ahead , no more than he can one exactli astern . In a word , the posit of the whale ' s eye correspond to that of a man ' s ear ; and you may fanci , for yourself , how it would fare with you , did you sideway survey object through your ear . you would find that you could onli command some thirti degre of vision in advanc of the straight side - line of sight ; and about thirti more behind it . If your bitterest foe were walk straight toward you , with dagger uplift in broad day , you would not be abl to see him , ani more than if he were steal upon you from behind . In a word , you would have two back , so to speak ; but , at the same time , also , two front ( side front ) : for what is it that make the front of a man -- what , inde , but hi eye ? moreov , while in most other anim that I can now think of , the eye are so plant as impercept to blend their visual power , so as to produc one pictur and not two to the brain ; the peculiar posit of the whale ' s eye , effectu divid as they are by mani cubic feet of solid head , which tower between them like a great mountain separ two lake in valley ; thi , of cours , must wholli separ the impress which each independ organ impart . the whale , therefor , must see one distinct pictur on thi side , and anoth distinct pictur on that side ; while all between must be profound dark and nothing to him . man may , in effect , be said to look out on the world from a sentri - box with two join sash for hi window . but with the whale , these two sash are separ insert , make two distinct window , but sadli impair the view . thi peculiar of the whale ' s eye is a thing alway to be born in mind in the fisheri ; and to be rememb by the reader in some subsequ scene . A curiou and most puzzl question might be start concern thi visual matter as touch the leviathan . but I must be content with a hint . So long as a man ' s eye are open in the light , the act of see is involuntari ; that is , he can not then help mechan see whatev object are befor him . nevertheless , ani one ' s experi will teach him , that though he can take in an undiscrimin sweep of thing at one glanc , it is quit imposs for him , attent , and complet , to examin ani two thing -- howev larg or howev small -- at one and the same instant of time ; never mind if they lie side by side and touch each other . but if you now come to separ these two object , and surround each by a circl of profound dark ; then , in order to see one of them , in such a manner as to bring your mind to bear on it , the other will be utterli exclud from your contemporari conscious . how is it , then , with the whale ? true , both hi eye , in themselv , must simultan act ; but is hi brain so much more comprehens , combin , and subtl than man ' s , that he can at the same moment of time attent examin two distinct prospect , one on one side of him , and the other in an exactli opposit direct ? If he can , then is it as marvel a thing in him , as if a man were abl simultan to go through the demonstr of two distinct problem in euclid . nor , strictli investig , is there ani incongru in thi comparison . It may be but an idl whim , but it ha alway seem to me , that the extraordinari vacil of movement display by some whale when beset by three or four boat ; the timid and liabil to queer fright , so common to such whale ; I think that all thi indirectli proce from the helpless perplex of volit , in which their divid and diametr opposit power of vision must involv them . but the ear of the whale is full as curiou as the eye . If you are an entir stranger to their race , you might hunt over these two head for hour , and never discov that organ . the ear ha no extern leaf whatev ; and into the hole itself you can hardli insert a quill , so wondrous minut is it . It is lodg a littl behind the eye . with respect to their ear , thi import differ is to be observ between the sperm whale and the right . while the ear of the former ha an extern open , that of the latter is entir and evenli cover over with a membran , so as to be quit impercept from without . Is it not curiou , that so vast a be as the whale should see the world through so small an eye , and hear the thunder through an ear which is smaller than a hare ' s ? but if hi eye were broad as the len of herschel ' s great telescop ; and hi ear capaci as the porch of cathedr ; would that make him ani longer of sight , or sharper of hear ? not at all . -- whi then do you tri to `` enlarg `` your mind ? subtil it . let us now with whatev lever and steam - engin we have at hand , cant over the sperm whale ' s head , that it may lie bottom up ; then , ascend by a ladder to the summit , have a peep down the mouth ; and were it not that the bodi is now complet separ from it , with a lantern we might descend into the great kentucki mammoth cave of hi stomach . but let us hold on here by thi tooth , and look about us where we are . what a realli beauti and chast - look mouth ! from floor to ceil , line , or rather paper with a glisten white membran , glossi as bridal satin . but come out now , and look at thi portent lower jaw , which seem like the long narrow lid of an immens snuff - box , with the hing at one end , instead of one side . If you pri it up , so as to get it overhead , and expos it row of teeth , it seem a terrif portculli ; and such , ala ! it prove to mani a poor wight in the fisheri , upon whom these spike fall with impal forc . but far more terribl is it to behold , when fathom down in the sea , you see some sulki whale , float there suspend , with hi prodigi jaw , some fifteen feet long , hang straight down at right - angl with hi bodi , for all the world like a ship ' s jib - boom . thi whale is not dead ; he is onli dispirit ; out of sort , perhap ; hypochondriac ; and so supin , that the hing of hi jaw have relax , leav him there in that ungainli sort of plight , a reproach to all hi tribe , who must , no doubt , imprec lock - jaw upon him . In most case thi lower jaw -- be easili unhing by a practis artist -- is disengag and hoist on deck for the purpos of extract the ivori teeth , and furnish a suppli of that hard white whalebon with which the fishermen fashion all sort of curiou articl , includ cane , umbrella - stock , and handl to ride - whip . with a long , weari hoist the jaw is drag on board , as if it were an anchor ; and when the proper time come -- some few day after the other work -- queequeg , daggoo , and tashtego , be all accomplish dentist , are set to draw teeth . with a keen cut - spade , queequeg lanc the gum ; then the jaw is lash down to ringbolt , and a tackl be rig from aloft , they drag out these teeth , as michigan oxen drag stump of old oak out of wild wood land . there are gener forti - two teeth in all ; in old whale , much worn down , but undecay ; nor fill after our artifici fashion . the jaw is afterward sawn into slab , and pile away like joist for build hous . chapter 75 the right whale ' s head -- contrast view . cross the deck , let us now have a good long look at the right whale ' s head . As in gener shape the nobl sperm whale ' s head may be compar to a roman war - chariot ( especi in front , where it is so broadli round ) ; so , at a broad view , the right whale ' s head bear a rather ineleg resembl to a gigant galliot - to shoe . two hundr year ago an old dutch voyag liken it shape to that of a shoemak ' s last . and in thi same last or shoe , that old woman of the nurseri tale , with the swarm brood , might veri comfort be lodg , she and all her progeni . but as you come nearer to thi great head it begin to assum differ aspect , accord to your point of view . If you stand on it summit and look at these two F - shape spouthol , you would take the whole head for an enorm bass - viol , and these spiracl , the apertur in it sound - board . then , again , if you fix your eye upon thi strang , crest , comb - like incrust on the top of the mass -- thi green , barnacl thing , which the greenland call the `` crown , '' and the southern fisher the `` bonnet `` of the right whale ; fix your eye sole on thi , you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak , with a bird ' s nest in it crotch . At ani rate , when you watch those live crab that nestl here on thi bonnet , such an idea will be almost sure to occur to you ; unless , inde , your fanci ha been fix by the technic term `` crown `` also bestow upon it ; in which case you will take great interest in think how thi mighti monster is actual a diadem king of the sea , whose green crown ha been put togeth for him in thi marvel manner . but if thi whale be a king , he is a veri sulki look fellow to grace a diadem . look at that hang lower lip ! what a huge sulk and pout is there ! a sulk and pout , by carpent ' s measur , about twenti feet long and five feet deep ; a sulk and pout that will yield you some 500 gallon of oil and more . A great piti , now , that thi unfortun whale should be hare - lip . the fissur is about a foot across . probabl the mother dure an import interv wa sail down the peruvian coast , when earthquak caus the beach to gape . over thi lip , as over a slipperi threshold , we now slide into the mouth . upon my word were I at mackinaw , I should take thi to be the insid of an indian wigwam . good lord ! is thi the road that jonah went ? the roof is about twelv feet high , and run to a pretti sharp angl , as if there were a regular ridg - pole there ; while these rib , arch , hairi side , present us with those wondrou , half vertic , scimetar - shape slat of whalebon , say three hundr on a side , which depend from the upper part of the head or crown bone , form those venetian blind which have elsewher been cursorili mention . the edg of these bone are fring with hairi fibr , through which the right whale strain the water , and in whose intricaci he retain the small fish , when openmouth he goe through the sea of brit in feed time . In the central blind of bone , as they stand in their natur order , there are certain curiou mark , curv , hollow , and ridg , wherebi some whalemen calcul the creatur ' s age , as the age of an oak by it circular ring . though the certainti of thi criterion is far from demonstr , yet it ha the savor of analog probabl . At ani rate , if we yield to it , we must grant a far greater age to the right whale than at first glanc will seem reason . In old time , there seem to have prevail the most curiou fanci concern these blind . one voyag in purcha call them the wondrou `` whisker `` insid of the whale ' s mouth ; * anoth , `` hog ' bristl `` ; a third old gentleman in hackluyt use the follow eleg languag : `` there are about two hundr and fifti fin grow on each side of hi upper chop , which arch over hi tongu on each side of hi mouth . '' * thi remind us that the right whale realli ha a sort of whisker , or rather a moustach , consist of a few scatter white hair on the upper part of the outer end of the lower jaw . sometim these tuft impart a rather brigandish express to hi otherwis solemn counten . As everi one know , these same `` hog ' bristl , '' `` fin , '' `` whisker , '' `` blind , '' or whatev you pleas , furnish to the ladi their busk and other stiffen contriv . but in thi particular , the demand ha long been on the declin . It wa in queen ann ' s time that the bone wa in it glori , the farthingal be then all the fashion . and as those ancient dame move about gaili , though in the jaw of the whale , as you may say ; even so , in a shower , with the like thoughtless , do we nowaday fli under the same jaw for protect ; the umbrella be a tent spread over the same bone . but now forget all about blind and whisker for a moment , and , stand in the right whale ' s mouth , look around you afresh . see all these colonnad of bone so method rang about , would you not think you were insid of the great haarlem organ , and gaze upon it thousand pipe ? for a carpet to the organ we have a rug of the softest turkey -- the tongu , which is glu , as it were , to the floor of the mouth . It is veri fat and tender , and apt to tear in piec in hoist it on deck . thi particular tongu now befor us ; at a pass glanc I should say it wa a six - barrel ; that is , it will yield you about that amount of oil . ere thi , you must have plainli seen the truth of what I start with -- that the sperm whale and the right whale have almost entir differ head . To sum up , then : in the right whale ' s there is no great well of sperm ; no ivori teeth at all ; no long , slender mandibl of a lower jaw , like the sperm whale ' s . nor in the sperm whale are there ani of those blind of bone ; no huge lower lip ; and scarc anyth of a tongu . again , the right whale ha two extern spout - hole , the sperm whale onli one . look your last , now , on these vener hood head , while they yet lie togeth ; for one will soon sink , unrecord , in the sea ; the other will not be veri long in follow . can you catch the express of the sperm whale ' s there ? It is the same he die with , onli some of the longer wrinkl in the forehead seem now fade away . I think hi broad brow to be full of a prairi - like placid , born of a specul indiffer as to death . but mark the other head ' s express . see that amaz lower lip , press by accid against the vessel ' s side , so as firmli to embrac the jaw . doe not thi whole head seem to speak of an enorm practic resolut in face death ? thi right whale I take to have been a stoic ; the sperm whale , a platonian , who might have taken up spinoza in hi latter year . chapter 76 the batter - ram . ere quit , for the nonc , the sperm whale ' s head , I would have you , as a sensibl physiologist , simpli -- particularli remark it front aspect , in all it compact collected . I would have you investig it now with the sole view of form to yourself some unexagger , intellig estim of whatev batter - ram power may be lodg there . here is a vital point ; for you must either satisfactorili settl thi matter with yourself , or for ever remain an infidel as to one of the most appal , but not the less true event , perhap anywher to be found in all record histori . you observ that in the ordinari swim posit of the sperm whale , the front of hi head present an almost wholli vertic plane to the water ; you observ that the lower part of that front slope consider backward , so as to furnish more of a retreat for the long socket which receiv the boom - like lower jaw ; you observ that the mouth is entir under the head , much in the same way , inde , as though your own mouth were entir under your chin . moreov you observ that the whale ha no extern nose ; and that what nose he ha -- hi spout hole -- is on the top of hi head ; you observ that hi eye and ear are at the side of hi head , nearli one third of hi entir length from the front . wherefor , you must now have perceiv that the front of the sperm whale ' s head is a dead , blind wall , without a singl organ or tender promin of ani sort whatsoev . furthermor , you are now to consid that onli in the extrem , lower , backward slope part of the front of the head , is there the slightest vestig of bone ; and not till you get near twenti feet from the forehead do you come to the full cranial develop . So that thi whole enorm boneless mass is as one wad . final , though , as will soon be reveal , it content partli compris the most delic oil ; yet , you are now to be appris of the natur of the substanc which so impregn invest all that appar effeminaci . In some previou place I have describ to you how the blubber wrap the bodi of the whale , as the rind wrap an orang . just so with the head ; but with thi differ : about the head thi envelop , though not so thick , is of a boneless tough , inestim by ani man who ha not handl it . the severest point harpoon , the sharpest lanc dart by the strongest human arm , impot rebound from it . It is as though the forehead of the sperm whale were pave with hors ' hoof . I do not think that ani sensat lurk in it . bethink yourself also of anoth thing . when two larg , load indiamen chanc to crowd and crush toward each other in the dock , what do the sailor do ? they do not suspend between them , at the point of come contact , ani mere hard substanc , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a larg , round wad of tow and cork , envelop in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . that brave and uninjur take the jam which would have snap all their oaken handspik and iron crow - bar . By itself thi suffici illustr the obviou fact I drive at . but supplementari to thi , it ha hypothet occur to me , that as ordinari fish possess what is call a swim bladder in them , capabl , at will , of distens or contract ; and as the sperm whale , as far as I know , ha no such provis in him ; consid , too , the otherwis inexplic manner in which he now depress hi head altogeth beneath the surfac , and anon swim with it high elev out of the water ; consid the unobstruct elast of it envelop ; consid the uniqu interior of hi head ; it ha hypothet occur to me , I say , that those mystic lung - cell honeycomb there may possibl have some hitherto unknown and unsuspect connexion with the outer air , so as to be suscept to atmospher distens and contract . If thi be so , fanci the irresist of that might , to which the most impalp and destruct of all element contribut . now , mark . unerringli impel thi dead , impregn , uninjur wall , and thi most buoyant thing within ; there swim behind it all a mass of tremend life , onli to be adequ estim as pile wood is -- by the cord ; and all obedi to one volit , as the smallest insect . So that when I shall hereaft detail to you all the special and concentr of potenc everywher lurk in thi expans monster ; when I shall show you some of hi more inconsider brain feat ; I trust you will have renounc all ignor incredul , and be readi to abid by thi ; that though the sperm whale stove a passag through the isthmu of darien , and mix the atlant with the pacif , you would not elev one hair of your eye - brow . for unless you own the whale , you are but a provinci and sentimentalist in truth . but clear truth is a thing for salamand giant onli to encount ; how small the chanc for the provinci then ? what befel the weakl youth lift the dread goddess ' s veil at lai ? chapter 77 the great heidelburgh tun . now come the bale of the case . but to comprehend it aright , you must know someth of the curiou intern structur of the thing oper upon . regard the sperm whale ' s head as a solid oblong , you may , on an inclin plane , sideway divid it into two quoin , * whereof the lower is the boni structur , form the cranium and jaw , and the upper an unctuou mass wholli free from bone ; it broad forward end form the expand vertic appar forehead of the whale . At the middl of the forehead horizont subdivid thi upper quoin , and then you have two almost equal part , which befor were natur divid by an intern wall of a thick tendin substanc . * quoin is not a euclidean term . It belong to the pure nautic mathemat . I know not that it ha been defin befor . A quoin is a solid which differ from a wedg in have it sharp end form by the steep inclin of one side , instead of the mutual taper of both side . the lower subdivid part , call the junk , is one immens honeycomb of oil , form by the cross and recross , into ten thousand infiltr cell , of tough elast white fibr throughout it whole extent . the upper part , known as the case , may be regard as the great heidelburgh tun of the sperm whale . and as that famou great tierc is mystic carv in front , so the whale ' s vast plait forehead form innumer strang devic for the emblemat adorn of hi wondrou tun . moreov , as that of heidelburgh wa alway replenish with the most excel of the wine of the rhenish valley , so the tun of the whale contain by far the most preciou of all hi oili vintag ; name , the highli - prize spermaceti , in it absolut pure , limpid , and odorifer state . nor is thi preciou substanc found unalloy in ani other part of the creatur . though in life it remain perfectli fluid , yet , upon exposur to the air , after death , it soon begin to concret ; send forth beauti crystallin shoot , as when the first thin delic ice is just form in water . A larg whale ' s case gener yield about five hundr gallon of sperm , though from unavoid circumst , consider of it is spill , leak , and dribbl away , or is otherwis irrevoc lost in the ticklish busi of secur what you can . I know not with what fine and costli materi the heidelburgh tun wa coat within , but in superl rich that coat could not possibl have compar with the silken pearl - colour membran , like the line of a fine peliss , form the inner surfac of the sperm whale ' s case . It will have been seen that the heidelburgh tun of the sperm whale embrac the entir length of the entir top of the head ; and sinc -- as ha been elsewher set forth -- the head embrac one third of the whole length of the creatur , then set that length down at eighti feet for a good size whale , you have more than twenti - six feet for the depth of the tun , when it is lengthwis hoist up and down against a ship ' s side . As in decapit the whale , the oper ' s instrument is brought close to the spot where an entranc is subsequ forc into the spermaceti magazin ; he ha , therefor , to be uncommonli heed , lest a careless , untim stroke should invad the sanctuari and wastingli let out it invalu content . It is thi decapit end of the head , also , which is at last elev out of the water , and retain in that posit by the enorm cut tackl , whose hempen combin , on one side , make quit a wilder of rope in that quarter . thu much be said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvel and -- in thi particular instanc -- almost fatal oper wherebi the sperm whale ' s great heidelburgh tun is tap . chapter 78 cistern and bucket . nimbl as a cat , tashtego mount aloft ; and without alter hi erect postur , run straight out upon the overhang mainyard - arm , to the part where it exactli project over the hoist tun . He ha carri with him a light tackl call a whip , consist of onli two part , travel through a singl - sheav block . secur thi block , so that it hang down from the yard - arm , he swing one end of the rope , till it is caught and firmli held by a hand on deck . then , hand - over - hand , down the other part , the indian drop through the air , till dexter he land on the summit of the head . there -- still high elev abov the rest of the compani , to whom he vivaci cri -- he seem some turkish muezzin call the good peopl to prayer from the top of a tower . A short - handl sharp spade be sent up to him , he dilig search for the proper place to begin break into the tun . In thi busi he proce veri heed , like a treasur - hunter in some old hous , sound the wall to find where the gold is mason in . By the time thi cautiou search is over , a stout iron - bound bucket , precis like a well - bucket , ha been attach to one end of the whip ; while the other end , be stretch across the deck , is there held by two or three alert hand . these last now hoist the bucket within grasp of the indian , to whom anoth person ha reach up a veri long pole . insert thi pole into the bucket , tashtego downward guid the bucket into the tun , till it entir disappear ; then give the word to the seamen at the whip , up come the bucket again , all bubbl like a dairi - maid ' s pail of new milk . care lower from it height , the full - freight vessel is caught by an appoint hand , and quickli empti into a larg tub . then remount aloft , it again goe through the same round until the deep cistern will yield no more . toward the end , tashtego ha to ram hi long pole harder and harder , and deeper and deeper into the tun , until some twenti feet of the pole have gone down . now , the peopl of the pequod had been bale some time in thi way ; sever tub had been fill with the fragrant sperm ; when all at onc a queer accid happen . whether it wa that tashtego , that wild indian , wa so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment hi one - hand hold on the great cabl tackl suspend the head ; or whether the place where he stood wa so treacher and oozi ; or whether the evil one himself would have it to fall out so , without state hi particular reason ; how it wa exactli , there is no tell now ; but , on a sudden , as the eightieth or ninetieth bucket came suckingli up -- my god ! poor tashtego -- like the twin reciproc bucket in a verit well , drop head - foremost down into thi great tun of heidelburgh , and with a horribl oili gurgl , went clean out of sight ! `` man overboard ! '' cri daggoo , who amid the gener constern first came to hi sens . `` swing the bucket thi way ! '' and put one foot into it , so as the better to secur hi slipperi hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoister ran him high up to the top of the head , almost befor tashtego could have reach it interior bottom . meantim , there wa a terribl tumult . look over the side , they saw the befor lifeless head throb and heav just below the surfac of the sea , as if that moment seiz with some moment idea ; wherea it wa onli the poor indian unconsci reveal by those struggl the peril depth to which he had sunk . At thi instant , while daggoo , on the summit of the head , wa clear the whip -- which had somehow got foul of the great cut tackl -- a sharp crack nois wa heard ; and to the unspeak horror of all , one of the two enorm hook suspend the head tore out , and with a vast vibrat the enorm mass sideway swung , till the drunk ship reel and shook as if smitten by an iceberg . the one remain hook , upon which the entir strain now depend , seem everi instant to be on the point of give way ; an event still more like from the violent motion of the head . `` come down , come down ! '' yell the seamen to daggoo , but with one hand hold on to the heavi tackl , so that if the head should drop , he would still remain suspend ; the negro have clear the foul line , ram down the bucket into the now collaps well , mean that the buri harpoon should grasp it , and so be hoist out . `` In heaven ' s name , man , '' cri stubb , `` are you ram home a cartridg there ? -- avast ! how will that help him ; jam that iron - bound bucket on top of hi head ? avast , will ye ! '' `` stand clear of the tackl ! '' cri a voic like the burst of a rocket . almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enorm mass drop into the sea , like niagara ' s tabl - rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenli reliev hull roll away from it , to far down her glitter copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swing -- now over the sailor ' head , and now over the water -- daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , wa dimli beheld cling to the pendul tackl , while poor , buri - aliv tashtego wa sink utterli down to the bottom of the sea ! but hardli had the blind vapour clear away , when a nake figur with a board - sword in hi hand , wa for one swift moment seen hover over the bulwark . the next , a loud splash announc that my brave queequeg had dive to the rescu . one pack rush wa made to the side , and everi eye count everi rippl , as moment follow moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . some hand now jump into a boat alongsid , and push a littl off from the ship . `` Ha ! ha ! '' cri daggoo , all at onc , from hi now quiet , swing perch overhead ; and look further off from the side , we saw an arm thrust upright from the blue wave ; a sight strang to see , as an arm thrust forth from the grass over a grave . `` both ! both ! -- it is both ! '' -- cri daggoo again with a joy shout ; and soon after , queequeg wa seen boldli strike out with one hand , and with the other clutch the long hair of the indian . drawn into the wait boat , they were quickli brought to the deck ; but tashtego wa long in come to , and queequeg did not look veri brisk . now , how had thi nobl rescu been accomplish ? whi , dive after the slowli descend head , queequeg with hi keen sword had made side lung near it bottom , so as to scuttl a larg hole there ; then drop hi sword , had thrust hi long arm far inward and upward , and so haul out poor tash by the head . He aver , that upon first thrust in for him , a leg wa present ; but well know that that wa not as it ought to be , and might occas great troubl ; -- he had thrust back the leg , and by a dexter heav and toss , had wrought a somerset upon the indian ; so that with the next trial , he came forth in the good old way -- head foremost . As for the great head itself , that wa do as well as could be expect . and thu , through the courag and great skill in obstetr of queequeg , the deliver , or rather , deliveri of tashtego , wa success accomplish , in the teeth , too , of the most untoward and appar hopeless impedi ; which is a lesson by no mean to be forgotten . midwiferi should be taught in the same cours with fenc and box , ride and row . I know that thi queer adventur of the gay - header ' s will be sure to seem incred to some landsmen , though they themselv may have either seen or heard of some one ' s fall into a cistern ashor ; an accid which not seldom happen , and with much less reason too than the indian ' s , consid the exceed slipperi of the curb of the sperm whale ' s well . but , peradventur , it may be sagaci urg , how is thi ? We thought the tissu , infiltr head of the sperm whale , wa the lightest and most corki part about him ; and yet thou makest it sink in an element of a far greater specif graviti than itself . We have thee there . not at all , but I have ye ; for at the time poor tash fell in , the case had been nearli empti of it lighter content , leav littl but the dens tendin wall of the well -- a doubl weld , hammer substanc , as I have befor said , much heavier than the sea water , and a lump of which sink in it like lead almost . but the tendenc to rapid sink in thi substanc wa in the present instanc materi counteract by the other part of the head remain undetach from it , so that it sank veri slowli and deliber inde , afford queequeg a fair chanc for perform hi agil obstetr on the run , as you may say . ye , it wa a run deliveri , so it wa . now , had tashtego perish in that head , it had been a veri preciou perish ; smother in the veri whitest and daintiest of fragrant spermaceti ; coffin , hears , and tomb in the secret inner chamber and sanctum sanctorum of the whale . onli one sweeter end can readili be recal -- the delici death of an ohio honey - hunter , who seek honey in the crotch of a hollow tree , found such exceed store of it , that lean too far over , it suck him in , so that he die embalm . how mani , think ye , have likewis fallen into plato ' s honey head , and sweetli perish there ? chapter 79 the prairi . To scan the line of hi face , or feel the bump on the head of thi leviathan ; thi is a thing which no physiognomist or phrenologist ha as yet undertaken . such an enterpris would seem almost as hope as for lavat to have scrutin the wrinkl on the rock of gibraltar , or for gall to have mount a ladder and manipul the dome of the pantheon . still , in that famou work of hi , lavat not onli treat of the variou face of men , but also attent studi the face of hors , bird , serpent , and fish ; and dwell in detail upon the modif of express discern therein . nor have gall and hi discipl spurzheim fail to throw out some hint touch the phrenolog characterist of other be than man . therefor , though I am but ill qualifi for a pioneer , in the applic of these two semi - scienc to the whale , I will do my endeavor . I tri all thing ; I achiev what I can . physiognom regard , the sperm whale is an anomal creatur . He ha no proper nose . and sinc the nose is the central and most conspicu of the featur ; and sinc it perhap most modifi and final control their combin express ; henc it would seem that it entir absenc , as an extern appendag , must veri larg affect the counten of the whale . for as in landscap garden , a spire , cupola , monument , or tower of some sort , is deem almost indispens to the complet of the scene ; so no face can be physiognom in keep without the elev open - work belfri of the nose . dash the nose from phidia ' s marbl jove , and what a sorri remaind ! nevertheless , leviathan is of so mighti a magnitud , all hi proport are so state , that the same defici which in the sculptur jove were hideou , in him is no blemish at all . nay , it is an ad grandeur . A nose to the whale would have been impertin . As on your physiognom voyag you sail round hi vast head in your jolli - boat , your nobl concept of him are never insult by the reflect that he ha a nose to be pull . A pestil conceit , which so often will insist upon obtrud even when behold the mightiest royal beadl on hi throne . In some particular , perhap the most impos physiognom view to be had of the sperm whale , is that of the full front of hi head . thi aspect is sublim . In thought , a fine human brow is like the east when troubl with the morn . In the repos of the pastur , the curl brow of the bull ha a touch of the grand in it . push heavi cannon up mountain defil , the eleph ' s brow is majest . human or anim , the mystic brow is as that great golden seal affix by the german emperor to their decre . It signifi -- '' god : done thi day by my hand . '' but in most creatur , nay in man himself , veri often the brow is but a mere strip of alpin land lie along the snow line . few are the forehead which like shakespear ' s or melancthon ' s rise so high , and descend so low , that the eye themselv seem clear , etern , tideless mountain lake ; and all abov them in the forehead ' s wrinkl , you seem to track the antler thought descend there to drink , as the highland hunter track the snow print of the deer . but in the great sperm whale , thi high and mighti god - like digniti inher in the brow is so immens amplifi , that gaze on it , in that full front view , you feel the deiti and the dread power more forcibl than in behold ani other object in live natur . for you see no one point precis ; not one distinct featur is reveal ; no nose , eye , ear , or mouth ; no face ; he ha none , proper ; noth but that one broad firmament of a forehead , pleat with riddl ; dumbl lower with the doom of boat , and ship , and men . nor , in profil , doe thi wondrou brow diminish ; though that way view it grandeur doe not domin upon you so . In profil , you plainli perceiv that horizont , semi - crescent depress in the forehead ' s middl , which , in man , is lavat ' s mark of geniu . but how ? geniu in the sperm whale ? ha the sperm whale ever written a book , spoken a speech ? No , hi great geniu is declar in hi do noth particular to prove it . It is moreov declar in hi pyramid silenc . and thi remind me that had the great sperm whale been known to the young orient world , he would have been deifi by their child - magian thought . they deifi the crocodil of the nile , becaus the crocodil is tongueless ; and the sperm whale ha no tongu , or at least it is so exceedingli small , as to be incap of protrus . If hereaft ani highli cultur , poetic nation shall lure back to their birth - right , the merri may - day god of old ; and livingli enthron them again in the now egotist sky ; in the now unhaunt hill ; then be sure , exalt to jove ' s high seat , the great sperm whale shall lord it . champollion deciph the wrinkl granit hieroglyph . but there is no champollion to deciph the egypt of everi man ' s and everi be ' s face . physiognomi , like everi other human scienc , is but a pass fabl . If then , sir william jone , who read in thirti languag , could not read the simplest peasant ' s face in it profound and more subtl mean , how may unlett ishmael hope to read the aw chalde of the sperm whale ' s brow ? I but put that brow befor you . read it if you can . chapter 80 the nut . If the sperm whale be physiognom a sphinx , to the phrenologist hi brain seem that geometr circl which it is imposs to squar . In the full - grown creatur the skull will measur at least twenti feet in length . unhing the lower jaw , and the side view of thi skull is as the side of a moder inclin plane rest throughout on a level base . but in life -- as we have elsewher seen -- thi inclin plane is angularli fill up , and almost squar by the enorm superincumb mass of the junk and sperm . At the high end the skull form a crater to bed that part of the mass ; while under the long floor of thi crater -- in anoth caviti seldom exceed ten inch in length and as mani in depth -- repos the mere hand of thi monster ' s brain . the brain is at least twenti feet from hi appar forehead in life ; it is hidden away behind it vast outwork , like the innermost citadel within the amplifi fortif of quebec . So like a choic casket is it secret in him , that I have known some whalemen who peremptorili deni that the sperm whale ha ani other brain than that palpabl semblanc of one form by the cubic - yard of hi sperm magazin . ly in strang fold , cours , and convolut , to their apprehens , it seem more in keep with the idea of hi gener might to regard that mystic part of him as the seat of hi intellig . It is plain , then , that phrenolog the head of thi leviathan , in the creatur ' s live intact state , is an entir delus . As for hi true brain , you can then see no indic of it , nor feel ani . the whale , like all thing that are mighti , wear a fals brow to the common world . If you unload hi skull of it spermi heap and then take a rear view of it rear end , which is the high end , you will be struck by it resembl to the human skull , beheld in the same situat , and from the same point of view . inde , place thi revers skull ( scale down to the human magnitud ) among a plate of men ' s skull , and you would involuntarili confound it with them ; and remark the depress on one part of it summit , in phrenolog phrase you would say -- thi man had no self - esteem , and no vener . and by those negat , consid along with the affirm fact of hi prodigi bulk and power , you can best form to yourself the truest , though not the most exhilar concept of what the most exalt potenc is . but if from the compar dimens of the whale ' s proper brain , you deem it incap of be adequ chart , then I have anoth idea for you . If you attent regard almost ani quadrup ' s spine , you will be struck with the resembl of it vertebra to a strung necklac of dwarf skull , all bear rudiment resembl to the skull proper . It is a german conceit , that the vertebra are absolut undevelop skull . but the curiou extern resembl , I take it the german were not the first men to perceiv . A foreign friend onc point it out to me , in the skeleton of a foe he had slain , and with the vertebra of which he wa inlay , in a sort of basso - relievo , the beak prow of hi cano . now , I consid that the phrenologist have omit an import thing in not push their investig from the cerebellum through the spinal canal . for I believ that much of a man ' s charact will be found betoken in hi backbon . I would rather feel your spine than your skull , whoever you are . A thin joist of a spine never yet upheld a full and nobl soul . I rejoic in my spine , as in the firm audaci staff of that flag which I fling half out to the world . appli thi spinal branch of phrenolog to the sperm whale . hi cranial caviti is continu with the first neck - vertebra ; and in that vertebra the bottom of the spinal canal will measur ten inch across , be eight in height , and of a triangular figur with the base downward . As it pass through the remain vertebra the canal taper in size , but for a consider distanc remain of larg capac . now , of cours , thi canal is fill with much the same strang fibrou substanc -- the spinal cord -- as the brain ; and directli commun with the brain . and what is still more , for mani feet after emerg from the brain ' s caviti , the spinal cord remain of an undecreas girth , almost equal to that of the brain . under all these circumst , would it be unreason to survey and map out the whale ' s spine phrenolog ? for , view in thi light , the wonder compar small of hi brain proper is more than compens by the wonder compar magnitud of hi spinal cord . but leav thi hint to oper as it may with the phrenologist , I would mere assum the spinal theori for a moment , in refer to the sperm whale ' s hump . thi august hump , if I mistak not , rise over one of the larger vertebra , and is , therefor , in some sort , the outer convex mould of it . from it rel situat then , I should call thi high hump the organ of firm or indomit in the sperm whale . and that the great monster is indomit , you will yet have reason to know . chapter 81 the pequod meet the virgin . the predestin day arriv , and we duli met the ship jungfrau , derick De deer , master , of bremen . At one time the greatest whale peopl in the world , the dutch and german are now among the least ; but here and there at veri wide interv of latitud and longitud , you still occasion meet with their flag in the pacif . for some reason , the jungfrau seem quit eager to pay her respect . while yet some distanc from the pequod , she round to , and drop a boat , her captain wa impel toward us , impati stand in the bow instead of the stern . `` what ha he in hi hand there ? '' cri starbuck , point to someth wavingli held by the german . `` imposs ! -- a lamp - feeder ! '' `` not that , '' said stubb , `` no , no , it ' s a coffe - pot , Mr . starbuck ; he ' s come off to make us our coffe , is the yarman ; don ' t you see that big tin can there alongsid of him ? -- that ' s hi boil water . Oh ! he ' s all right , is the yarman . '' `` Go along with you , '' cri flask , `` it ' s a lamp - feeder and an oil - can . He ' s out of oil , and ha come a - beg . '' howev curiou it may seem for an oil - ship to be borrow oil on the whale - ground , and howev much it may invertedli contradict the old proverb about carri coal to newcastl , yet sometim such a thing realli happen ; and in the present case captain derick De deer did indubit conduct a lamp - feeder as flask did declar . As he mount the deck , ahab abruptli accost him , without at all heed what he had in hi hand ; but in hi broken lingo , the german soon evinc hi complet ignor of the white whale ; immedi turn the convers to hi lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remark touch hi have to turn into hi hammock at night in profound dark -- hi last drop of bremen oil be gone , and not a singl fli - fish yet captur to suppli the defici ; conclud by hint that hi ship wa inde what in the fisheri is technic call a clean one ( that is , an empti one ) , well deserv the name of jungfrau or the virgin . hi necess suppli , derick depart ; but he had not gain hi ship ' s side , when whale were almost simultan rais from the mast - head of both vessel ; and so eager for the chase wa derick , that without paus to put hi oil - can and lamp - feeder aboard , he slew round hi boat and made after the leviathan lamp - feeder . now , the game have risen to leeward , he and the other three german boat that soon follow him , had consider the start of the pequod ' s keel . there were eight whale , an averag pod . awar of their danger , they were go all abreast with great speed straight befor the wind , rub their flank as close as so mani span of hors in har . they left a great , wide wake , as though continu unrol a great wide parchment upon the sea . full in thi rapid wake , and mani fathom in the rear , swam a huge , hump old bull , which by hi compar slow progress , as well as by the unusu yellowish incrust overgrow him , seem afflict with the jaundic , or some other infirm . whether thi whale belong to the pod in advanc , seem question ; for it is not customari for such vener leviathan to be at all social . nevertheless , he stuck to their wake , though inde their back water must have retard him , becaus the white - bone or swell at hi broad muzzl wa a dash one , like the swell form when two hostil current meet . hi spout wa short , slow , and labori ; come forth with a choke sort of gush , and spend itself in torn shred , follow by strang subterranean commot in him , which seem to have egress at hi other buri extrem , caus the water behind him to upbubbl . `` who ' s got some paregor ? '' said stubb , `` he ha the stomach - ach , I ' m afraid . lord , think of have half an acr of stomach - ach ! advers wind are hold mad christma in him , boy . It ' s the first foul wind I ever knew to blow from astern ; but look , did ever whale yaw so befor ? it must be , he ' s lost hi tiller . '' As an overladen indiaman bear down the hindostan coast with a deck load of frighten hors , careen , buri , roll , and wallow on her way ; so did thi old whale heav hi age bulk , and now and then partli turn over on hi cumbrou rib - end , expos the caus of hi deviou wake in the unnatur stump of hi starboard fin . whether he had lost that fin in battl , or had been born without it , it were hard to say . `` onli wait a bit , old chap , and I ' ll give ye a sling for that wound arm , '' cri cruel flask , point to the whale - line near him . `` mind he don ' t sling thee with it , '' cri starbuck . `` give way , or the german will have him . '' with one intent all the combin rival boat were point for thi one fish , becaus not onli wa he the largest , and therefor the most valuabl whale , but he wa nearest to them , and the other whale were go with such great veloc , moreov , as almost to defi pursuit for the time . At thi junctur the pequod ' s keel had shot by the three german boat last lower ; but from the great start he had had , derick ' s boat still led the chase , though everi moment near by hi foreign rival . the onli thing they fear , wa , that from be alreadi so nigh to hi mark , he would be enabl to dart hi iron befor they could complet overtak and pass him . As for derick , he seem quit confid that thi would be the case , and occasion with a derid gestur shook hi lamp - feeder at the other boat . `` the ungraci and ungrat dog ! '' cri starbuck ; `` he mock and dare me with the veri poor - box I fill for him not five minut ago ! '' -- then in hi old intens whisper -- '' give way , greyhound ! dog to it ! '' `` I tell ye what it is , men `` -- cri stubb to hi crew -- '' it ' s against my religion to get mad ; but I ' d like to eat that villain yarman -- pull -- won ' t ye ? are ye go to let that rascal beat ye ? Do ye love brandi ? A hogshead of brandi , then , to the best man . come , whi don ' t some of ye burst a blood - vessel ? who ' s that been drop an anchor overboard -- we don ' t budg an inch -- we ' re becalm . halloo , here ' s grass grow in the boat ' s bottom -- and by the lord , the mast there ' s bud . thi won ' t do , boy . look at that yarman ! the short and long of it is , men , will ye spit fire or not ? '' `` Oh ! see the sud he make ! '' cri flask , danc up and down -- '' what a hump -- Oh , DO pile on the beef -- lay like a log ! Oh ! my lad , DO spring -- slap - jack and quahog for supper , you know , my lad -- bake clam and muffin -- oh , DO , DO , spring , -- he ' s a hundr barrel -- don ' t lose him now -- don ' t oh , don ' T ! -- see that yarman -- Oh , won ' t ye pull for your duff , my lad -- such a sog ! such a sogger ! don ' t ye love sperm ? there goe three thousand dollar , men ! -- a bank ! -- a whole bank ! the bank of england ! -- Oh , DO , DO , DO ! -- what ' s that yarman about now ? '' At thi moment derick wa in the act of pitch hi lamp - feeder at the advanc boat , and also hi oil - can ; perhap with the doubl view of retard hi rival ' way , and at the same time econom acceler hi own by the momentari impetu of the backward toss . `` the unmannerli dutch dogger ! '' cri stubb . `` pull now , men , like fifti thousand line - of - battl - ship load of red - hair devil . what d ' ye say , tashtego ; are you the man to snap your spine in two - and - twenti piec for the honour of old gayhead ? what d ' ye say ? '' `` I say , pull like god - dam , '' -- cri the indian . fierc , but evenli incit by the taunt of the german , the pequod ' s three boat now began rang almost abreast ; and , so dispos , momentarili near him . In that fine , loos , chivalr attitud of the headsman when draw near to hi prey , the three mate stood up proudli , occasion back the after oarsman with an exhilar cri of , `` there she slide , now ! hurrah for the white - ash breez ! down with the yarman ! sail over him ! '' but so decid an origin start had derick had , that spite of all their gallantri , he would have prove the victor in thi race , had not a righteou judgment descend upon him in a crab which caught the blade of hi midship oarsman . while thi clumsi lubber wa strive to free hi white - ash , and while , in consequ , derick ' s boat wa nigh to capsiz , and he thunder away at hi men in a mighti rage ; -- that wa a good time for starbuck , stubb , and flask . with a shout , they took a mortal start forward , and slantingli rang up on the german ' s quarter . An instant more , and all four boat were diagon in the whale ' s immedi wake , while stretch from them , on both side , wa the foam swell that he made . It wa a terrif , most pitiabl , and madden sight . the whale wa now go head out , and send hi spout befor him in a continu torment jet ; while hi one poor fin beat hi side in an agoni of fright . now to thi hand , now to that , he yaw in hi falter flight , and still at everi billow that he broke , he spasmod sank in the sea , or sideway roll toward the sky hi one beat fin . So have I seen a bird with clip wing make affright broken circl in the air , vainli strive to escap the pirat hawk . but the bird ha a voic , and with plaintiv cri will make known her fear ; but the fear of thi vast dumb brute of the sea , wa chain up and enchant in him ; he had no voic , save that choke respir through hi spiracl , and thi made the sight of him unspeak pitiabl ; while still , in hi amaz bulk , portculli jaw , and omnipot tail , there wa enough to appal the stoutest man who so piti . see now that but a veri few moment more would give the pequod ' s boat the advantag , and rather than be thu foil of hi game , derick chose to hazard what to him must have seem a most unusu long dart , ere the last chanc would for ever escap . but no sooner did hi harpoon stand up for the stroke , than all three tiger -- queequeg , tashtego , daggoo -- instinct sprang to their feet , and stand in a diagon row , simultan point their barb ; and dart over the head of the german harpoon , their three nantucket iron enter the whale . blind vapour of foam and white - fire ! the three boat , in the first furi of the whale ' s headlong rush , bump the german ' s asid with such forc , that both derick and hi baffl harpoon were spill out , and sail over by the three fli keel . `` don ' t be afraid , my butter - box , '' cri stubb , cast a pass glanc upon them as he shot by ; `` ye ' ll be pick up present -- all right -- I saw some shark astern -- St . bernard ' s dog , you know -- reliev distress travel . hurrah ! thi is the way to sail now . everi keel a sunbeam ! hurrah ! -- here we go like three tin kettl at the tail of a mad cougar ! thi put me in mind of fasten to an eleph in a tilburi on a plain -- make the wheel - spoke fli , boy , when you fasten to him that way ; and there ' s danger of be pitch out too , when you strike a hill . hurrah ! thi is the way a fellow feel when he ' s go to davi jone -- all a rush down an endless inclin plane ! hurrah ! thi whale carri the everlast mail ! '' but the monster ' s run wa a brief one . give a sudden gasp , he tumultu sound . with a grate rush , the three line flew round the loggerhead with such a forc as to goug deep groov in them ; while so fear were the harpoon that thi rapid sound would soon exhaust the line , that use all their dexter might , they caught repeat smoke turn with the rope to hold on ; till at last -- owe to the perpendicular strain from the lead - line chock of the boat , whenc the three rope went straight down into the blue -- the gunwal of the bow were almost even with the water , while the three stern tilt high in the air . and the whale soon ceas to sound , for some time they remain in that attitud , fear of expend more line , though the posit wa a littl ticklish . but though boat have been taken down and lost in thi way , yet it is thi `` hold on , '' as it is call ; thi hook up by the sharp barb of hi live flesh from the back ; thi it is that often torment the leviathan into soon rise again to meet the sharp lanc of hi foe . yet not to speak of the peril of the thing , it is to be doubt whether thi cours is alway the best ; for it is but reason to presum , that the longer the stricken whale stay under water , the more he is exhaust . becaus , owe to the enorm surfac of him -- in a full grown sperm whale someth less than 2000 squar feet -- the pressur of the water is immens . We all know what an astonish atmospher weight we ourselv stand up under ; even here , abov - ground , in the air ; how vast , then , the burden of a whale , bear on hi back a column of two hundr fathom of ocean ! It must at least equal the weight of fifti atmospher . one whaleman ha estim it at the weight of twenti line - of - battl ship , with all their gun , and store , and men on board . As the three boat lay there on that gentli roll sea , gaze down into it etern blue noon ; and as not a singl groan or cri of ani sort , nay , not so much as a rippl or a bubbl came up from it depth ; what landsman would have thought , that beneath all that silenc and placid , the utmost monster of the sea wa writh and wrench in agoni ! not eight inch of perpendicular rope were visibl at the bow . seem it credibl that by three such thin thread the great leviathan wa suspend like the big weight to an eight day clock . suspend ? and to what ? To three bit of board . Is thi the creatur of whom it wa onc so triumphantli said -- '' canst thou fill hi skin with barb iron ? or hi head with fish - spear ? the sword of him that layeth at him can not hold , the spear , the dart , nor the habergeon : he esteemeth iron as straw ; the arrow can not make him flee ; dart are count as stubbl ; he laugheth at the shake of a spear ! '' thi the creatur ? thi he ? Oh ! that unfulfil should follow the prophet . for with the strength of a thousand thigh in hi tail , leviathan had run hi head under the mountain of the sea , to hide him from the pequod ' s fish - spear ! In that slope afternoon sunlight , the shadow that the three boat sent down beneath the surfac , must have been long enough and broad enough to shade half xerx ' armi . who can tell how appal to the wound whale must have been such huge phantom flit over hi head ! `` stand by , men ; he stir , '' cri starbuck , as the three line suddenli vibrat in the water , distinctli conduct upward to them , as by magnet wire , the life and death throb of the whale , so that everi oarsman felt them in hi seat . the next moment , reliev in great part from the downward strain at the bow , the boat gave a sudden bounc upward , as a small icefield will , when a dens herd of white bear are scare from it into the sea . `` haul in ! haul in ! '' cri starbuck again ; `` he ' s rise . '' the line , of which , hardli an instant befor , not one hand ' s breadth could have been gain , were now in long quick coil flung back all drip into the boat , and soon the whale broke water within two ship ' s length of the hunter . hi motion plainli denot hi extrem exhaust . In most land anim there are certain valv or flood - gate in mani of their vein , wherebi when wound , the blood is in some degre at least instantli shut off in certain direct . not so with the whale ; one of whose peculiar it is to have an entir non - valvular structur of the blood - vessel , so that when pierc even by so small a point as a harpoon , a deadli drain is at onc begun upon hi whole arteri system ; and when thi is heighten by the extraordinari pressur of water at a great distanc below the surfac , hi life may be said to pour from him in incess stream . yet so vast is the quantiti of blood in him , and so distant and numer it interior fountain , that he will keep thu bleed and bleed for a consider period ; even as in a drought a river will flow , whose sourc is in the well - spring of far - off and undiscern hill . even now , when the boat pull upon thi whale , and peril drew over hi sway fluke , and the lanc were dart into him , they were follow by steadi jet from the new made wound , which kept continu play , while the natur spout - hole in hi head wa onli at interv , howev rapid , send it affright moistur into the air . from thi last vent no blood yet came , becaus no vital part of him had thu far been struck . hi life , as they significantli call it , wa untouch . As the boat now more close surround him , the whole upper part of hi form , with much of it that is ordinarili submerg , wa plainli reveal . hi eye , or rather the place where hi eye had been , were beheld . As strang misgrown mass gather in the knot - hole of the noblest oak when prostrat , so from the point which the whale ' s eye had onc occupi , now protrud blind bulb , horribl pitiabl to see . but piti there wa none . for all hi old age , and hi one arm , and hi blind eye , he must die the death and be murder , in order to light the gay bridal and other merri - make of men , and also to illumin the solemn church that preach uncondit inoffens by all to all . still roll in hi blood , at last he partial disclos a strang discolour bunch or protuber , the size of a bushel , low down on the flank . `` A nice spot , '' cri flask ; `` just let me prick him there onc . '' `` avast ! '' cri starbuck , `` there ' s no need of that ! '' but human starbuck wa too late . At the instant of the dart an ulcer jet shot from thi cruel wound , and goad by it into more than suffer anguish , the whale now spout thick blood , with swift furi blindli dart at the craft , bespatt them and their glori crew all over with shower of gore , capsiz flask ' s boat and mar the bow . It wa hi death stroke . for , by thi time , so spent wa he by loss of blood , that he helplessli roll away from the wreck he had made ; lay pant on hi side , impot flap with hi stump fin , then over and over slowli revolv like a wane world ; turn up the white secret of hi belli ; lay like a log , and die . It wa most piteou , that last expir spout . As when by unseen hand the water is gradual drawn off from some mighti fountain , and with half - stifl melancholi gurgl the spray - column lower and lower to the ground -- so the last long die spout of the whale . soon , while the crew were await the arriv of the ship , the bodi show symptom of sink with all it treasur unrifl . immedi , by starbuck ' s order , line were secur to it at differ point , so that ere long everi boat wa a buoy ; the sunken whale be suspend a few inch beneath them by the cord . By veri heed manag , when the ship drew nigh , the whale wa transfer to her side , and wa strongli secur there by the stiffest fluke - chain , for it wa plain that unless artifici upheld , the bodi would at onc sink to the bottom . It so chanc that almost upon first cut into him with the spade , the entir length of a corrod harpoon wa found imbed in hi flesh , on the lower part of the bunch befor describ . but as the stump of harpoon are frequent found in the dead bodi of captur whale , with the flesh perfectli heal around them , and no promin of ani kind to denot their place ; therefor , there must need have been some other unknown reason in the present case fulli to account for the ulcer allud to . but still more curiou wa the fact of a lanc - head of stone be found in him , not far from the buri iron , the flesh perfectli firm about it . who had dart that stone lanc ? and when ? It might have been dart by some nor ' west indian long befor america wa discov . what other marvel might have been rummag out of thi monstrou cabinet there is no tell . but a sudden stop wa put to further discoveri , by the ship ' s be unprecedentedli drag over sideway to the sea , owe to the bodi ' s immens increas tendenc to sink . howev , starbuck , who had the order of affair , hung on to it to the last ; hung on to it so resolut , inde , that when at length the ship would have been capsiz , if still persist in lock arm with the bodi ; then , when the command wa given to break clear from it , such wa the immov strain upon the timber - head to which the fluke - chain and cabl were fasten , that it wa imposs to cast them off . meantim everyth in the pequod wa aslant . To cross to the other side of the deck wa like walk up the steep gabl roof of a hous . the ship groan and gasp . mani of the ivori inlay of her bulwark and cabin were start from their place , by the unnatur disloc . In vain handspik and crow were brought to bear upon the immov fluke - chain , to pri them adrift from the timberhead ; and so low had the whale now settl that the submerg end could not be at all approach , while everi moment whole ton of ponderos seem ad to the sink bulk , and the ship seem on the point of go over . `` hold on , hold on , won ' t ye ? '' cri stubb to the bodi , `` don ' t be in such a devil of a hurri to sink ! By thunder , men , we must do someth or go for it . No use pri there ; avast , I say with your handspik , and run one of ye for a prayer book and a pen - knife , and cut the big chain . '' `` knife ? aye , aye , '' cri queequeg , and seiz the carpent ' s heavi hatchet , he lean out of a porthol , and steel to iron , began slash at the largest fluke - chain . but a few stroke , full of spark , were given , when the exceed strain effect the rest . with a terrif snap , everi fasten went adrift ; the ship right , the carcas sank . now , thi occasion inevit sink of the recent kill sperm whale is a veri curiou thing ; nor ha ani fisherman yet adequ account for it . usual the dead sperm whale float with great buoyanc , with it side or belli consider elev abov the surfac . If the onli whale that thu sank were old , meagr , and broken - heart creatur , their pad of lard diminish and all their bone heavi and rheumat ; then you might with some reason assert that thi sink is caus by an uncommon specif graviti in the fish so sink , consequ upon thi absenc of buoyant matter in him . but it is not so . for young whale , in the highest health , and swell with nobl aspir , prematur cut off in the warm flush and may of life , with all their pant lard about them ; even these brawni , buoyant hero do sometim sink . Be it said , howev , that the sperm whale is far less liabl to thi accid than ani other speci . where one of that sort go down , twenti right whale do . thi differ in the speci is no doubt imput in no small degre to the greater quantiti of bone in the right whale ; hi venetian blind alon sometim weigh more than a ton ; from thi incumbr the sperm whale is wholli free . but there are instanc where , after the laps of mani hour or sever day , the sunken whale again rise , more buoyant than in life . but the reason of thi is obviou . gase are gener in him ; he swell to a prodigi magnitud ; becom a sort of anim balloon . A line - of - battl ship could hardli keep him under then . In the shore whale , on sound , among the bay of new zealand , when a right whale give token of sink , they fasten buoy to him , with plenti of rope ; so that when the bodi ha gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascend again . It wa not long after the sink of the bodi that a cri wa heard from the pequod ' s mast - head , announc that the jungfrau wa again lower her boat ; though the onli spout in sight wa that of a fin - back , belong to the speci of uncaptur whale , becaus of it incred power of swim . nevertheless , the fin - back ' s spout is so similar to the sperm whale ' s , that by unskil fishermen it is often mistaken for it . and consequ derick and all hi host were now in valiant chase of thi unnear brute . the virgin crowd all sail , made after her four young keel , and thu they all disappear far to leeward , still in bold , hope chase . Oh ! mani are the fin - back , and mani are the derick , my friend . chapter 82 the honour and glori of whale . there are some enterpris in which a care disorderli is the true method . the more I dive into thi matter of whale , and push my research up to the veri spring - head of it so much the more am I impress with it great honour and antiqu ; and especi when I find so mani great demi - god and hero , prophet of all sort , who one way or other have shed distinct upon it , I am transport with the reflect that I myself belong , though but subordin , to so emblazon a fratern . the gallant perseu , a son of jupit , wa the first whaleman ; and to the etern honour of our call be it said , that the first whale attack by our brotherhood wa not kill with ani sordid intent . those were the knightli day of our profess , when we onli bore arm to succor the distress , and not to fill men ' s lamp - feeder . everi one know the fine stori of perseu and andromeda ; how the love andromeda , the daughter of a king , wa tie to a rock on the sea - coast , and as leviathan wa in the veri act of carri her off , perseu , the princ of whalemen , intrepidli advanc , harpoon the monster , and deliv and marri the maid . It wa an admir artist exploit , rare achiev by the best harpoon of the present day ; inasmuch as thi leviathan wa slain at the veri first dart . and let no man doubt thi arkit stori ; for in the ancient joppa , now jaffa , on the syrian coast , in one of the pagan templ , there stood for mani age the vast skeleton of a whale , which the citi ' s legend and all the inhabit assert to be the ident bone of the monster that perseu slew . when the roman took joppa , the same skeleton wa carri to itali in triumph . what seem most singular and suggest import in thi stori , is thi : it wa from joppa that jonah set sail . akin to the adventur of perseu and andromeda -- inde , by some suppos to be indirectli deriv from it -- is that famou stori of St . georg and the dragon ; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale ; for in mani old chronicl whale and dragon are strang jumbl togeth , and often stand for each other . `` thou art as a lion of the water , and as a dragon of the sea , '' saith ezekiel ; herebi , plainli mean a whale ; in truth , some version of the bibl use that word itself . besid , it would much subtract from the glori of the exploit had St . georg but encount a crawl reptil of the land , instead of do battl with the great monster of the deep . ani man may kill a snake , but onli a perseu , a St . georg , a coffin , have the heart in them to march boldli up to a whale . let not the modern paint of thi scene mislead us ; for though the creatur encount by that valiant whaleman of old is vagu repres of a griffin - like shape , and though the battl is depict on land and the saint on horseback , yet consid the great ignor of those time , when the true form of the whale wa unknown to artist ; and consid that as in perseu ' case , St . georg ' s whale might have crawl up out of the sea on the beach ; and consid that the anim ridden by St . georg might have been onli a larg seal , or sea - hors ; bear all thi in mind , it will not appear altogeth incompat with the sacr legend and the ancientest draught of the scene , to hold thi so - call dragon no other than the great leviathan himself . In fact , place befor the strict and pierc truth , thi whole stori will fare like that fish , flesh , and fowl idol of the philistin , dagon by name ; who be plant befor the ark of israel , hi hors ' s head and both the palm of hi hand fell off from him , and onli the stump or fishi part of him remain . thu , then , one of our own nobl stamp , even a whaleman , is the tutelari guardian of england ; and by good right , we harpoon of nantucket should be enrol in the most nobl order of St . georg . and therefor , let not the knight of that honour compani ( none of whom , I ventur to say , have ever had to do with a whale like their great patron ) , let them never eye a nantucket with disdain , sinc even in our woollen frock and tar trowser we are much better entitl to St . georg ' s decor than they . whether to admit hercul among us or not , concern thi I long remain dubiou : for though accord to the greek mytholog , that antiqu crockett and kit carson -- that brawni doer of rejoic good deed , wa swallow down and thrown up by a whale ; still , whether that strictli make a whaleman of him , that might be moot . It nowher appear that he ever actual harpoon hi fish , unless , inde , from the insid . nevertheless , he may be deem a sort of involuntari whaleman ; at ani rate the whale caught him , if he did not the whale . I claim him for one of our clan . but , by the best contradictori author , thi grecian stori of hercul and the whale is consid to be deriv from the still more ancient hebrew stori of jonah and the whale ; and vice versa ; certainli they are veri similar . If I claim the demigod then , whi not the prophet ? nor do hero , saint , demigod , and prophet alon compris the whole roll of our order . our grand master is still to be name ; for like royal king of old time , we find the head water of our fratern in noth short of the great god themselv . that wondrou orient stori is now to be rehears from the shaster , which give us the dread vishnoo , one of the three person in the godhead of the hindoo ; give us thi divin vishnoo himself for our lord ; -- vishnoo , who , by the first of hi ten earthli incarn , ha for ever set apart and sanctifi the whale . when brahma , or the god of god , saith the shaster , resolv to recreat the world after one of it period dissolut , he gave birth to vishnoo , to presid over the work ; but the veda , or mystic book , whose perus would seem to have been indispens to vishnoo befor begin the creation , and which therefor must have contain someth in the shape of practic hint to young architect , these veda were lie at the bottom of the water ; so vishnoo becam incarn in a whale , and sound down in him to the uttermost depth , rescu the sacr volum . wa not thi vishnoo a whaleman , then ? even as a man who ride a hors is call a horseman ? perseu , St . georg , hercul , jonah , and vishnoo ! there ' s a member - roll for you ! what club but the whaleman ' s can head off like that ? chapter 83 jonah histor regard . refer wa made to the histor stori of jonah and the whale in the preced chapter . now some nantucket rather distrust thi histor stori of jonah and the whale . but then there were some sceptic greek and roman , who , stand out from the orthodox pagan of their time , equal doubt the stori of hercul and the whale , and arion and the dolphin ; and yet their doubt those tradit did not make those tradit one whit the less fact , for all that . one old sag - harbor whaleman ' s chief reason for question the hebrew stori wa thi : -- He had one of those quaint old - fashion bibl , embellish with curiou , unscientif plate ; one of which repres jonah ' s whale with two spout in hi head -- a peculiar onli true with respect to a speci of the leviathan ( the right whale , and the varieti of that order ) , concern which the fishermen have thi say , `` A penni roll would choke him `` ; hi swallow is so veri small . but , to thi , bishop jebb ' s anticip answer is readi . It is not necessari , hint the bishop , that we consid jonah as tomb in the whale ' s belli , but as temporarili lodg in some part of hi mouth . and thi seem reason enough in the good bishop . for truli , the right whale ' s mouth would accommod a coupl of whist - tabl , and comfort seat all the player . possibl , too , jonah might have ensconc himself in a hollow tooth ; but , on second thought , the right whale is toothless . anoth reason which sag - harbor ( he went by that name ) urg for hi want of faith in thi matter of the prophet , wa someth obscur in refer to hi incarcer bodi and the whale ' s gastric juic . but thi object likewis fall to the ground , becaus a german exegetist suppos that jonah must have taken refug in the float bodi of a dead whale -- even as the french soldier in the russian campaign turn their dead hors into tent , and crawl into them . besid , it ha been divin by other continent comment , that when jonah wa thrown overboard from the joppa ship , he straightway effect hi escap to anoth vessel near by , some vessel with a whale for a figur - head ; and , I would add , possibl call `` the whale , '' as some craft are nowaday christen the `` shark , '' the `` gull , '' the `` eagl . '' nor have there been want learn exegetist who have opin that the whale mention in the book of jonah mere meant a life - preserv -- an inflat bag of wind -- which the endang prophet swam to , and so wa save from a wateri doom . poor sag - harbor , therefor , seem worst all round . but he had still anoth reason for hi want of faith . It wa thi , if I rememb right : jonah wa swallow by the whale in the mediterranean sea , and after three day he wa vomit up somewher within three day ' journey of nineveh , a citi on the tigri , veri much more than three day ' journey across from the nearest point of the mediterranean coast . how is that ? but wa there no other way for the whale to land the prophet within that short distanc of nineveh ? ye . He might have carri him round by the way of the cape of good hope . but not to speak of the passag through the whole length of the mediterranean , and anoth passag up the persian gulf and red sea , such a supposit would involv the complet circumnavig of all africa in three day , not to speak of the tigri water , near the site of nineveh , be too shallow for ani whale to swim in . besid , thi idea of jonah ' s weather the cape of good hope at so earli a day would wrest the honour of the discoveri of that great headland from bartholomew diaz , it reput discover , and so make modern histori a liar . but all these foolish argument of old sag - harbor onli evinc hi foolish pride of reason -- a thing still more reprehens in him , see that he had but littl learn except what he had pick up from the sun and the sea . I say it onli show hi foolish , impiou pride , and abomin , devilish rebellion against the reverend clergi . for by a portugues cathol priest , thi veri idea of jonah ' s go to nineveh via the cape of good hope wa advanc as a signal magnif of the gener miracl . and so it wa . besid , to thi day , the highli enlighten turk devoutli believ in the histor stori of jonah . and some three centuri ago , an english travel in old harri ' s voyag , speak of a turkish mosqu built in honour of jonah , in which mosqu wa a miracul lamp that burnt without ani oil . chapter 84 pitchpol . To make them run easili and swiftli , the axl of carriag are anoint ; and for much the same purpos , some whaler perform an analog oper upon their boat ; they greas the bottom . nor is it to be doubt that as such a procedur can do no harm , it may possibl be of no contempt advantag ; consid that oil and water are hostil ; that oil is a slide thing , and that the object in view is to make the boat slide brave . queequeg believ strongli in anoint hi boat , and one morn not long after the german ship jungfrau disappear , took more than customari pain in that occup ; crawl under it bottom , where it hung over the side , and rub in the unctuous as though dilig seek to insur a crop of hair from the craft ' s bald keel . He seem to be work in obedi to some particular presenti . nor did it remain unwarr by the event . toward noon whale were rais ; but so soon as the ship sail down to them , they turn and fled with swift precipit ; a disord flight , as of cleopatra ' s barg from actium . nevertheless , the boat pursu , and stubb ' s wa foremost . By great exert , tashtego at last succeed in plant one iron ; but the stricken whale , without at all sound , still continu hi horizont flight , with ad fleet . such unintermit strain upon the plant iron must sooner or later inevit extract it . It becam imper to lanc the fli whale , or be content to lose him . but to haul the boat up to hi flank wa imposs , he swam so fast and furiou . what then remain ? Of all the wondrou devic and dexter , the sleight of hand and countless subtleti , to which the veteran whaleman is so often forc , none exceed that fine manoeuvr with the lanc call pitchpol . small sword , or broad sword , in all it exercis boast noth like it . It is onli indispens with an inveter run whale ; it grand fact and featur is the wonder distanc to which the long lanc is accur dart from a violent rock , jerk boat , under extrem headway . steel and wood includ , the entir spear is some ten or twelv feet in length ; the staff is much slighter than that of the harpoon , and also of a lighter materi -- pine . It is furnish with a small rope call a warp , of consider length , by which it can be haul back to the hand after dart . but befor go further , it is import to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpol in the same way with the lanc , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequent success , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compar with the lanc , which in effect becom seriou drawback . As a gener thing , therefor , you must first get fast to a whale , befor ani pitchpol come into play . look now at stubb ; a man who from hi humor , deliber cool and equanim in the direst emerg , wa special qualifi to excel in pitchpol . look at him ; he stand upright in the toss bow of the fli boat ; wrapt in fleeci foam , the tow whale is forti feet ahead . handl the long lanc lightli , glanc twice or thrice along it length to see if it be exactli straight , stubb whistlingli gather up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secur it free end in hi grasp , leav the rest unobstruct . then hold the lanc full befor hi waistband ' s middl , he level it at the whale ; when , cover him with it , he steadili depress the butt - end in hi hand , therebi elev the point till the weapon stand fairli balanc upon hi palm , fifteen feet in the air . He mind you somewhat of a juggler , balanc a long staff on hi chin . next moment with a rapid , nameless impuls , in a superb lofti arch the bright steel span the foam distanc , and quiver in the life spot of the whale . instead of sparkl water , he now spout red blood . `` that drove the spigot out of him ! '' cri stubb . `` ' ti juli ' s immort fourth ; all fountain must run wine today ! would now , it were old orlean whiskey , or old ohio , or unspeak old monongahela ! then , tashtego , lad , I ' d have ye hold a canakin to the jet , and we ' d drink round it ! yea , verili , heart aliv , we ' d brew choic punch in the spread of hi spout - hole there , and from that live punch - bowl quaff the live stuff . '' again and again to such gamesom talk , the dexter dart is repeat , the spear return to it master like a greyhound held in skil leash . the agon whale goe into hi flurri ; the tow - line is slacken , and the pitchpol drop astern , fold hi hand , and mute watch the monster die . chapter 85 the fountain . that for six thousand year -- and no one know how mani million of age befor -- the great whale should have been spout all over the sea , and sprinkl and mistifi the garden of the deep , as with so mani sprinkl or mistifi pot ; and that for some centuri back , thousand of hunter should have been close by the fountain of the whale , watch these sprinkl and spout -- that all thi should be , and yet , that down to thi bless minut ( fifteen and a quarter minut past one o ' clock P . M . of thi sixteenth day of decemb , A . D . 1851 ) , it should still remain a problem , whether these spout are , after all , realli water , or noth but vapour -- thi is sure a noteworthi thing . let us , then , look at thi matter , along with some interest item conting . everi one know that by the peculiar cun of their gill , the finni tribe in gener breath the air which at all time is combin with the element in which they swim ; henc , a her or a cod might live a centuri , and never onc rais it head abov the surfac . but owe to hi mark intern structur which give him regular lung , like a human be ' s , the whale can onli live by inhal the disengag air in the open atmospher . wherefor the necess for hi period visit to the upper world . but he can not in ani degre breath through hi mouth , for , in hi ordinari attitud , the sperm whale ' s mouth is buri at least eight feet beneath the surfac ; and what is still more , hi windpip ha no connexion with hi mouth . No , he breath through hi spiracl alon ; and thi is on the top of hi head . If I say , that in ani creatur breath is onli a function indispens to vital , inasmuch as it withdraw from the air a certain element , which be subsequ brought into contact with the blood impart to the blood it vivifi principl , I do not think I shall err ; though I may possibl use some superflu scientif word . assum it , and it follow that if all the blood in a man could be aerat with one breath , he might then seal up hi nostril and not fetch anoth for a consider time . that is to say , he would then live without breath . anomal as it may seem , thi is precis the case with the whale , who systemat live , by interv , hi full hour and more ( when at the bottom ) without draw a singl breath , or so much as in ani way inhal a particl of air ; for , rememb , he ha no gill . how is thi ? between hi rib and on each side of hi spine he is suppli with a remark involv cretan labyrinth of vermicelli - like vessel , which vessel , when he quit the surfac , are complet distend with oxygen blood . So that for an hour or more , a thousand fathom in the sea , he carri a surplu stock of vital in him , just as the camel cross the waterless desert carri a surplu suppli of drink for futur use in it four supplementari stomach . the anatom fact of thi labyrinth is indisput ; and that the supposit found upon it is reason and true , seem the more cogent to me , when I consid the otherwis inexplic obstinaci of that leviathan in have hi spout out , as the fishermen phrase it . thi is what I mean . If unmolest , upon rise to the surfac , the sperm whale will continu there for a period of time exactli uniform with all hi other unmolest rise . say he stay eleven minut , and jet seventi time , that is , respir seventi breath ; then whenev he rise again , he will be sure to have hi seventi breath over again , to a minut . now , if after he fetch a few breath you alarm him , so that he sound , he will be alway dodg up again to make good hi regular allow of air . and not till those seventi breath are told , will he final go down to stay out hi full term below . remark , howev , that in differ individu these rate are differ ; but in ani one they are alik . now , whi should the whale thu insist upon have hi spout out , unless it be to replenish hi reservoir of air , ere descend for good ? how obviou is it , too , that thi necess for the whale ' s rise expos him to all the fatal hazard of the chase . for not by hook or by net could thi vast leviathan be caught , when sail a thousand fathom beneath the sunlight . not so much thi skill , then , O hunter , as the great necess that strike the victori to thee ! In man , breath is incessantli go on -- one breath onli serv for two or three pulsat ; so that whatev other busi he ha to attend to , wake or sleep , breath he must , or die he will . but the sperm whale onli breath about one seventh or sunday of hi time . It ha been said that the whale onli breath through hi spout - hole ; if it could truth be ad that hi spout are mix with water , then I opin we should be furnish with the reason whi hi sens of smell seem obliter in him ; for the onli thing about him that at all answer to hi nose is that ident spout - hole ; and be so clog with two element , it could not be expect to have the power of smell . but owe to the mysteri of the spout -- whether it be water or whether it be vapour -- no absolut certainti can as yet be arriv at on thi head . sure it is , nevertheless , that the sperm whale ha no proper olfactori . but what doe he want of them ? No rose , no violet , no cologn - water in the sea . furthermor , as hi windpip sole open into the tube of hi spout canal , and as that long canal -- like the grand eri canal -- is furnish with a sort of lock ( that open and shut ) for the downward retent of air or the upward exclus of water , therefor the whale ha no voic ; unless you insult him by say , that when he so strang rumbl , he talk through hi nose . but then again , what ha the whale to say ? seldom have I known ani profound be that had anyth to say to thi world , unless forc to stammer out someth by way of get a live . Oh ! happi that the world is such an excel listen ! now , the spout canal of the sperm whale , chiefli intend as it is for the convey of air , and for sever feet laid along , horizont , just beneath the upper surfac of hi head , and a littl to one side ; thi curiou canal is veri much like a ga - pipe laid down in a citi on one side of a street . but the question return whether thi ga - pipe is also a water - pipe ; in other word , whether the spout of the sperm whale is the mere vapour of the exhal breath , or whether that exhal breath is mix with water taken in at the mouth , and discharg through the spiracl . It is certain that the mouth indirectli commun with the spout canal ; but it can not be prove that thi is for the purpos of discharg water through the spiracl . becaus the greatest necess for so do would seem to be , when in feed he accident take in water . but the sperm whale ' s food is far beneath the surfac , and there he can not spout even if he would . besid , if you regard him veri close , and time him with your watch , you will find that when unmolest , there is an undevi rhyme between the period of hi jet and the ordinari period of respir . but whi pester one with all thi reason on the subject ? speak out ! you have seen him spout ; then declar what the spout is ; can you not tell water from air ? My dear sir , in thi world it is not so easi to settl these plain thing . I have ever found your plain thing the knottiest of all . and as for thi whale spout , you might almost stand in it , and yet be undecid as to what it is precis . the central bodi of it is hidden in the snowi sparkl mist envelop it ; and how can you certainli tell whether ani water fall from it , when , alway , when you are close enough to a whale to get a close view of hi spout , he is in a prodigi commot , the water cascad all around him . and if at such time you should think that you realli perceiv drop of moistur in the spout , how do you know that they are not mere condens from it vapour ; or how do you know that they are not those ident drop superfici lodg in the spout - hole fissur , which is countersunk into the summit of the whale ' s head ? for even when tranquilli swim through the mid - day sea in a calm , with hi elev hump sun - dri as a dromedari ' s in the desert ; even then , the whale alway carri a small basin of water on hi head , as under a blaze sun you will sometim see a caviti in a rock fill up with rain . nor is it at all prudent for the hunter to be over curiou touch the precis natur of the whale spout . It will not do for him to be peer into it , and put hi face in it . you can not go with your pitcher to thi fountain and fill it , and bring it away . for even when come into slight contact with the outer , vapouri shred of the jet , which will often happen , your skin will feverishli smart , from the acrid of the thing so touch it . and I know one , who come into still closer contact with the spout , whether with some scientif object in view , or otherwis , I can not say , the skin peel off from hi cheek and arm . wherefor , among whalemen , the spout is deem poison ; they tri to evad it . anoth thing ; I have heard it said , and I do not much doubt it , that if the jet is fairli spout into your eye , it will blind you . the wisest thing the investig can do then , it seem to me , is to let thi deadli spout alon . still , we can hypothes , even if we can not prove and establish . My hypothesi is thi : that the spout is noth but mist . and besid other reason , to thi conclus I am impel , by consider touch the great inher digniti and sublim of the sperm whale ; I account him no common , shallow be , inasmuch as it is an undisput fact that he is never found on sound , or near shore ; all other whale sometim are . He is both ponder and profound . and I am convinc that from the head of all ponder profound be , such as plato , pyrrho , the devil , jupit , dant , and so on , there alway goe up a certain semi - visibl steam , while in the act of think deep thought . while compos a littl treatis on etern , I had the curios to place a mirror befor me ; and ere long saw reflect there , a curiou involv worm and undul in the atmospher over my head . the invari moistur of my hair , while plung in deep thought , after six cup of hot tea in my thin shingl attic , of an august noon ; thi seem an addit argument for the abov supposit . and how nobli it rais our conceit of the mighti , misti monster , to behold him solemnli sail through a calm tropic sea ; hi vast , mild head overhung by a canopi of vapour , engend by hi incommunic contempl , and that vapour -- as you will sometim see it -- glorifi by a rainbow , as if heaven itself had put it seal upon hi thought . for , d ' ye see , rainbow do not visit the clear air ; they onli irradi vapour . and so , through all the thick mist of the dim doubt in my mind , divin intuit now and then shoot , enkindl my fog with a heavenli ray . and for thi I thank god ; for all have doubt ; mani deni ; but doubt or denial , few along with them , have intuit . doubt of all thing earthli , and intuit of some thing heavenli ; thi combin make neither believ nor infidel , but make a man who regard them both with equal eye . chapter 86 the tail . other poet have warbl the prais of the soft eye of the antelop , and the love plumag of the bird that never alight ; less celesti , I celebr a tail . reckon the largest size sperm whale ' s tail to begin at that point of the trunk where it taper to about the girth of a man , it compris upon it upper surfac alon , an area of at least fifti squar feet . the compact round bodi of it root expand into two broad , firm , flat palm or fluke , gradual shoal away to less than an inch in thick . At the crotch or junction , these fluke slightli overlap , then sideway reced from each other like wing , leav a wide vacanc between . In no live thing are the line of beauti more exquisit defin than in the crescent border of these fluke . At it utmost expans in the full grown whale , the tail will consider exceed twenti feet across . the entir member seem a dens web bed of weld sinew ; but cut into it , and you find that three distinct strata compos it : -- upper , middl , and lower . the fibr in the upper and lower layer , are long and horizont ; those of the middl one , veri short , and run crosswis between the outsid layer . thi triun structur , as much as anyth els , impart power to the tail . To the student of old roman wall , the middl layer will furnish a curiou parallel to the thin cours of tile alway altern with the stone in those wonder relic of the antiqu , and which undoubtedli contribut so much to the great strength of the masonri . but as if thi vast local power in the tendin tail were not enough , the whole bulk of the leviathan is knit over with a warp and woof of muscular fibr and filament , which pass on either side the loin and run down into the fluke , insens blend with them , and larg contribut to their might ; so that in the tail the confluent measureless forc of the whole whale seem concentr to a point . could annihil occur to matter , thi were the thing to do it . nor doe thi -- it amaz strength , at all tend to crippl the grace flexion of it motion ; where infantil of eas undul through a titan of power . On the contrari , those motion deriv their most appal beauti from it . real strength never impair beauti or harmoni , but it often bestow it ; and in everyth imposingli beauti , strength ha much to do with the magic . take away the tie tendon that all over seem burst from the marbl in the carv hercul , and it charm would be gone . As devout eckerman lift the linen sheet from the nake corps of goeth , he wa overwhelm with the massiv chest of the man , that seem as a roman triumphal arch . when angelo paint even god the father in human form , mark what robust is there . and whatev they may reveal of the divin love in the son , the soft , curl , hermaphrodit italian pictur , in which hi idea ha been most success embodi ; these pictur , so destitut as they are of all brawni , hint noth of ani power , but the mere neg , feminin one of submiss and endur , which on all hand it is conced , form the peculiar practic virtu of hi teach . such is the subtl elast of the organ I treat of , that whether wield in sport , or in earnest , or in anger , whatev be the mood it be in , it flexion are invari mark by exceed grace . therein no fairi ' s arm can transcend it . five great motion are peculiar to it . first , when use as a fin for progress ; second , when use as a mace in battl ; third , in sweep ; fourth , in lobtail ; fifth , in peak fluke . first : be horizont in it posit , the leviathan ' s tail act in a differ manner from the tail of all other sea creatur . It never wriggl . In man or fish , wriggl is a sign of inferior . To the whale , hi tail is the sole mean of propuls . scroll - wise coil forward beneath the bodi , and then rapidli sprung backward , it is thi which give that singular dart , leap motion to the monster when furious swim . hi side - fin onli serv to steer by . second : It is a littl signific , that while one sperm whale onli fight anoth sperm whale with hi head and jaw , nevertheless , in hi conflict with man , he chiefli and contemptu use hi tail . In strike at a boat , he swiftli curv away hi fluke from it , and the blow is onli inflict by the recoil . If it be made in the unobstruct air , especi if it descend to it mark , the stroke is then simpli irresist . No rib of man or boat can withstand it . your onli salvat lie in elud it ; but if it come sideway through the oppos water , then partli owe to the light buoyanc of the whale boat , and the elast of it materi , a crack rib or a dash plank or two , a sort of stitch in the side , is gener the most seriou result . these submerg side blow are so often receiv in the fisheri , that they are account mere child ' s play . some one strip off a frock , and the hole is stop . third : I can not demonstr it , but it seem to me , that in the whale the sens of touch is concentr in the tail ; for in thi respect there is a delicaci in it onli equal by the dainti of the eleph ' s trunk . thi delicaci is chiefli evinc in the action of sweep , when in maidenli gentl the whale with a certain soft slow move hi immens fluke from side to side upon the surfac of the sea ; and if he feel but a sailor ' s whisker , woe to that sailor , whisker and all . what tender there is in that preliminari touch ! had thi tail ani prehensil power , I should straightway bethink me of darmonod ' eleph that so frequent the flower - market , and with low salut present nosegay to damsel , and then caress their zone . On more account than one , a piti it is that the whale doe not possess thi prehensil virtu in hi tail ; for I have heard of yet anoth eleph , that when wound in the fight , curv round hi trunk and extract the dart . fourth : steal unawar upon the whale in the fanci secur of the middl of solitari sea , you find him unbent from the vast corpul of hi digniti , and kitten - like , he play on the ocean as if it were a hearth . but still you see hi power in hi play . the broad palm of hi tail are flirt high into the air ; then smite the surfac , the thunder concuss resound for mile . you would almost think a great gun had been discharg ; and if you notic the light wreath of vapour from the spiracl at hi other extrem , you would think that that wa the smoke from the touch - hole . fifth : As in the ordinari float postur of the leviathan the fluke lie consider below the level of hi back , they are then complet out of sight beneath the surfac ; but when he is about to plung into the deep , hi entir fluke with at least thirti feet of hi bodi are toss erect in the air , and so remain vibrat a moment , till they downward shoot out of view . except the sublim breach -- somewher els to be describ -- thi peak of the whale ' s fluke is perhap the grandest sight to be seen in all anim natur . out of the bottomless profund the gigant tail seem spasmod snatch at the highest heaven . So in dream , have I seen majest satan thrust forth hi torment coloss claw from the flame baltic of hell . but in gaze at such scene , it is all in all what mood you are in ; if in the dantean , the devil will occur to you ; if in that of isaiah , the archangel . stand at the mast - head of my ship dure a sunris that crimson sky and sea , I onc saw a larg herd of whale in the east , all head toward the sun , and for a moment vibrat in concert with peak fluke . As it seem to me at the time , such a grand embodi of ador of the god wa never beheld , even in persia , the home of the fire worshipp . As ptolemi philopat testifi of the african eleph , I then testifi of the whale , pronounc him the most devout of all be . for accord to king juba , the militari eleph of antiqu often hail the morn with their trunk uplift in the profoundest silenc . the chanc comparison in thi chapter , between the whale and the eleph , so far as some aspect of the tail of the one and the trunk of the other are concern , should not tend to place those two opposit organ on an equal , much less the creatur to which they respect belong . for as the mightiest eleph is but a terrier to leviathan , so , compar with leviathan ' s tail , hi trunk is but the stalk of a lili . the most dire blow from the eleph ' s trunk were as the play tap of a fan , compar with the measureless crush and crash of the sperm whale ' s ponder fluke , which in repeat instanc have one after the other hurl entir boat with all their oar and crew into the air , veri much as an indian juggler toss hi ball . * * though all comparison in the way of gener bulk between the whale and the eleph is preposter , inasmuch as in that particular the eleph stand in much the same respect to the whale that a dog doe to the eleph ; nevertheless , there are not want some point of curiou similitud ; among these is the spout . It is well known that the eleph will often draw up water or dust in hi trunk , and then elev it , jet it forth in a stream . the more I consid thi mighti tail , the more do I deplor my inabl to express it . At time there are gestur in it , which , though they would well grace the hand of man , remain wholli inexplic . In an extens herd , so remark , occasion , are these mystic gestur , that I have heard hunter who have declar them akin to free - mason sign and symbol ; that the whale , inde , by these method intellig convers with the world . nor are there want other motion of the whale in hi gener bodi , full of strang , and unaccount to hi most experienc assail . dissect him how I may , then , I but go skin deep ; I know him not , and never will . but if I know not even the tail of thi whale , how understand hi head ? much more , how comprehend hi face , when face he ha none ? thou shalt see my back part , my tail , he seem to say , but my face shall not be seen . but I can not complet make out hi back part ; and hint what he will about hi face , I say again he ha no face . chapter 87 the grand armada . the long and narrow peninsula of malacca , extend south - eastward from the territori of birmah , form the most southerli point of all asia . In a continu line from that peninsula stretch the long island of sumatra , java , balli , and timor ; which , with mani other , form a vast mole , or rampart , lengthwis connect asia with australia , and divid the long unbroken indian ocean from the thickli stud orient archipelago . thi rampart is pierc by sever salli - port for the conveni of ship and whale ; conspicu among which are the strait of sunda and malacca . By the strait of sunda , chiefli , vessel bound to china from the west , emerg into the china sea . those narrow strait of sunda divid sumatra from java ; and stand midway in that vast rampart of island , buttress by that bold green promontori , known to seamen as java head ; they not a littl correspond to the central gateway open into some vast wall empir : and consid the inexhaust wealth of spice , and silk , and jewel , and gold , and ivori , with which the thousand island of that orient sea are enrich , it seem a signific provis of natur , that such treasur , by the veri format of the land , should at least bear the appear , howev ineffectu , of be guard from the all - grasp western world . the shore of the strait of sunda are unsuppli with those domin fortress which guard the entranc to the mediterranean , the baltic , and the proponti . unlik the dane , these orient do not demand the obsequi homag of lower top - sail from the endless process of ship befor the wind , which for centuri past , by night and by day , have pass between the island of sumatra and java , freight with the costliest cargo of the east . but while they freeli waiv a ceremoni like thi , they do by no mean renounc their claim to more solid tribut . time out of mind the pirat proa of the malay , lurk among the low shade cove and islet of sumatra , have salli out upon the vessel sail through the strait , fierc demand tribut at the point of their spear . though by the repeat bloodi chastis they have receiv at the hand of european cruiser , the audac of these corsair ha of late been somewhat repress ; yet , even at the present day , we occasion hear of english and american vessel , which , in those water , have been remorselessli board and pillag . with a fair , fresh wind , the pequod wa now draw nigh to these strait ; ahab purpos to pass through them into the javan sea , and thenc , cruis northward , over water known to be frequent here and there by the sperm whale , sweep inshor by the philippin island , and gain the far coast of japan , in time for the great whale season there . By these mean , the circumnavig pequod would sweep almost all the known sperm whale cruis ground of the world , previou to descend upon the line in the pacif ; where ahab , though everywher els foil in hi pursuit , firmli count upon give battl to mobi dick , in the sea he wa most known to frequent ; and at a season when he might most reason be presum to be haunt it . but how now ? in thi zone quest , doe ahab touch no land ? doe hi crew drink air ? sure , he will stop for water . nay . for a long time , now , the circu - run sun ha race within hi fieri ring , and need no susten but what ' s in himself . So ahab . mark thi , too , in the whaler . while other hull are load down with alien stuff , to be transfer to foreign wharv ; the world - wander whale - ship carri no cargo but herself and crew , their weapon and their want . she ha a whole lake ' s content bottl in her ampl hold . she is ballast with util ; not altogeth with unus pig - lead and kentledg . she carri year ' water in her . clear old prime nantucket water ; which , when three year afloat , the nantucket , in the pacif , prefer to drink befor the brackish fluid , but yesterday raft off in cask , from the peruvian or indian stream . henc it is , that , while other ship may have gone to china from new york , and back again , touch at a score of port , the whale - ship , in all that interv , may not have sight one grain of soil ; her crew have seen no man but float seamen like themselv . So that did you carri them the news that anoth flood had come ; they would onli answer -- '' well , boy , here ' s the ark ! '' now , as mani sperm whale had been captur off the western coast of java , in the near vicin of the strait of sunda ; inde , as most of the ground , roundabout , wa gener recognis by the fishermen as an excel spot for cruis ; therefor , as the pequod gain more and more upon java head , the look - out were repeatedli hail , and admonish to keep wide awak . but though the green palmi cliff of the land soon loom on the starboard bow , and with delight nostril the fresh cinnamon wa snuf in the air , yet not a singl jet wa descri . almost renounc all thought of fall in with ani game hereabout , the ship had well nigh enter the strait , when the customari cheer cri wa heard from aloft , and ere long a spectacl of singular magnific salut us . but here be it premis , that owe to the unweari activ with which of late they have been hunt over all four ocean , the sperm whale , instead of almost invari sail in small detach compani , as in former time , are now frequent met with in extens herd , sometim embrac so great a multitud , that it would almost seem as if numer nation of them had sworn solemn leagu and coven for mutual assist and protect . To thi aggreg of the sperm whale into such immens caravan , may be imput the circumst that even in the best cruis ground , you may now sometim sail for week and month togeth , without be greet by a singl spout ; and then be suddenli salut by what sometim seem thousand on thousand . broad on both bow , at the distanc of some two or three mile , and form a great semicircl , embrac one half of the level horizon , a continu chain of whale - jet were up - play and sparkl in the noon - day air . unlik the straight perpendicular twin - jet of the right whale , which , divid at top , fall over in two branch , like the cleft droop bough of a willow , the singl forward - slant spout of the sperm whale present a thick curl bush of white mist , continu rise and fall away to leeward . seen from the pequod ' s deck , then , as she would rise on a high hill of the sea , thi host of vapouri spout , individu curl up into the air , and beheld through a blend atmospher of bluish haze , show like the thousand cheer chimney of some dens metropoli , descri of a balmi autumn morn , by some horseman on a height . As march armi approach an unfriendli defil in the mountain , acceler their march , all eager to place that peril passag in their rear , and onc more expand in compar secur upon the plain ; even so did thi vast fleet of whale now seem hurri forward through the strait ; gradual contract the wing of their semicircl , and swim on , in one solid , but still crescent centr . crowd all sail the pequod press after them ; the harpoon handl their weapon , and loudli cheer from the head of their yet suspend boat . If the wind onli held , littl doubt had they , that chase through these strait of sunda , the vast host would onli deploy into the orient sea to wit the captur of not a few of their number . and who could tell whether , in that congreg caravan , mobi dick himself might not temporarili be swim , like the worship white - eleph in the coron process of the siames ! So with stun - sail pile on stun - sail , we sail along , drive these leviathan befor us ; when , of a sudden , the voic of tashtego wa heard , loudli direct attent to someth in our wake . correspond to the crescent in our van , we beheld anoth in our rear . It seem form of detach white vapour , rise and fall someth like the spout of the whale ; onli they did not so complet come and go ; for they constantli hover , without final disappear . level hi glass at thi sight , ahab quickli revolv in hi pivot - hole , cri , `` aloft there , and rig whip and bucket to wet the sail ; -- malay , sir , and after us ! '' As if too long lurk behind the headland , till the pequod should fairli have enter the strait , these rascal asiat were now in hot pursuit , to make up for their over - cautiou delay . but when the swift pequod , with a fresh lead wind , wa herself in hot chase ; how veri kind of these tawni philanthropist to assist in speed her on to her own chosen pursuit , -- mere ride - whip and rowel to her , that they were . As with glass under arm , ahab to - and - fro pace the deck ; in hi forward turn behold the monster he chase , and in the after one the bloodthirsti pirat chase him ; some such fanci as the abov seem hi . and when he glanc upon the green wall of the wateri defil in which the ship wa then sail , and bethought him that through that gate lay the rout to hi vengeanc , and beheld , how that through that same gate he wa now both chase and be chase to hi deadli end ; and not onli that , but a herd of remorseless wild pirat and inhuman atheist devil were infern cheer him on with their curs ; -- when all these conceit had pass through hi brain , ahab ' s brow wa left gaunt and rib , like the black sand beach after some stormi tide ha been gnaw it , without be abl to drag the firm thing from it place . but thought like these troubl veri few of the reckless crew ; and when , after steadili drop and drop the pirat astern , the pequod at last shot by the vivid green cockatoo point on the sumatra side , emerg at last upon the broad water beyond ; then , the harpoon seem more to griev that the swift whale had been gain upon the ship , than to rejoic that the ship had so victori gain upon the malay . but still drive on in the wake of the whale , at length they seem abat their speed ; gradual the ship near them ; and the wind now die away , word wa pass to spring to the boat . but no sooner did the herd , by some presum wonder instinct of the sperm whale , becom notifi of the three keel that were after them , -- though as yet a mile in their rear , -- than they ralli again , and form in close rank and battalion , so that their spout all look like flash line of stack bayonet , move on with redoubl veloc . strip to our shirt and drawer , we sprang to the white - ash , and after sever hour ' pull were almost dispos to renounc the chase , when a gener paus commot among the whale gave anim token that they were now at last under the influenc of that strang perplex of inert irresolut , which , when the fishermen perceiv it in the whale , they say he is galli . the compact martial column in which they had been hitherto rapidli and steadili swim , were now broken up in one measureless rout ; and like king poru ' eleph in the indian battl with alexand , they seem go mad with constern . In all direct expand in vast irregular circl , and aimlessli swim hither and thither , by their short thick spout , they plainli betray their distract of panic . thi wa still more strang evinc by those of their number , who , complet paralys as it were , helplessli float like water - log dismantl ship on the sea . had these leviathan been but a flock of simpl sheep , pursu over the pastur by three fierc wolv , they could not possibl have evinc such excess dismay . but thi occasion timid is characterist of almost all herd creatur . though band togeth in ten of thousand , the lion - mane buffalo of the west have fled befor a solitari horseman . wit , too , all human be , how when herd togeth in the sheepfold of a theatr ' s pit , they will , at the slightest alarm of fire , rush helter - skelter for the outlet , crowd , trampl , jam , and remorselessli dash each other to death . best , therefor , withhold ani amaz at the strang galli whale befor us , for there is no folli of the beast of the earth which is not infinit outdon by the mad of men . though mani of the whale , as ha been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observ that as a whole the herd neither advanc nor retreat , but collect remain in one place . As is customari in those case , the boat at onc separ , each make for some one lone whale on the outskirt of the shoal . In about three minut ' time , queequeg ' s harpoon wa flung ; the stricken fish dart blind spray in our face , and then run away with us like light , steer straight for the heart of the herd . though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumst , is in no wise unpreced ; and inde is almost alway more or less anticip ; yet doe it present one of the more peril vicissitud of the fisheri . for as the swift monster drag you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and onli exist in a deliri throb . As , blind and deaf , the whale plung forward , as if by sheer power of speed to rid himself of the iron leech that had fasten to him ; as we thu tore a white gash in the sea , on all side menac as we flew , by the craze creatur to and fro rush about us ; our beset boat wa like a ship mob by ice - isl in a tempest , and strive to steer through their complic channel and strait , know not at what moment it may be lock in and crush . but not a bit daunt , queequeg steer us man ; now sheer off from thi monster directli across our rout in advanc ; now edg away from that , whose coloss fluke were suspend overhead , while all the time , starbuck stood up in the bow , lanc in hand , prick out of our way whatev whale he could reach by short dart , for there wa no time to make long one . nor were the oarsmen quit idl , though their wont duti wa now altogeth dispens with . they chiefli attend to the shout part of the busi . `` out of the way , commodor ! '' cri one , to a great dromedari that of a sudden rose bodili to the surfac , and for an instant threaten to swamp us . `` hard down with your tail , there ! '' cri a second to anoth , which , close to our gunwal , seem calmli cool himself with hi own fan - like extrem . all whaleboat carri certain curiou contriv , origin invent by the nantucket indian , call drugg . two thick squar of wood of equal size are stoutli clench togeth , so that they cross each other ' s grain at right angl ; a line of consider length is then attach to the middl of thi block , and the other end of the line be loop , it can in a moment be fasten to a harpoon . It is chiefli among galli whale that thi drugg is use . for then , more whale are close round you than you can possibl chase at one time . but sperm whale are not everi day encount ; while you may , then , you must kill all you can . and if you can not kill them all at onc , you must wing them , so that they can be afterward kill at your leisur . henc it is , that at time like these the drugg , come into requisit . our boat wa furnish with three of them . the first and second were success dart , and we saw the whale staggeringli run off , fetter by the enorm sidelong resist of the tow drugg . they were cramp like malefactor with the chain and ball . but upon fling the third , in the act of toss overboard the clumsi wooden block , it caught under one of the seat of the boat , and in an instant tore it out and carri it away , drop the oarsman in the boat ' s bottom as the seat slid from under him . On both side the sea came in at the wound plank , but we stuf two or three drawer and shirt in , and so stop the leak for the time . It had been next to imposs to dart these drug - harpoon , were it not that as we advanc into the herd , our whale ' s way greatli diminish ; moreov , that as we went still further and further from the circumfer of commot , the dire disord seem wane . So that when at last the jerk harpoon drew out , and the tow whale sideway vanish ; then , with the taper forc of hi part momentum , we glide between two whale into the innermost heart of the shoal , as if from some mountain torrent we had slid into a seren valley lake . here the storm in the roar glen between the outermost whale , were heard but not felt . In thi central expans the sea present that smooth satin - like surfac , call a sleek , produc by the subtl moistur thrown off by the whale in hi more quiet mood . ye , we were now in that enchant calm which they say lurk at the heart of everi commot . and still in the distract distanc we beheld the tumult of the outer concentr circl , and saw success pod of whale , eight or ten in each , swiftli go round and round , like multipli span of hors in a ring ; and so close shoulder to shoulder , that a titan circu - rider might easili have over - arch the middl one , and so have gone round on their back . owe to the densiti of the crowd of repos whale , more immedi surround the embay axi of the herd , no possibl chanc of escap wa at present afford us . We must watch for a breach in the live wall that hem us in ; the wall that had onli admit us in order to shut us up . keep at the centr of the lake , we were occasion visit by small tame cow and calv ; the women and children of thi rout host . now , inclus of the occasion wide interv between the revolv outer circl , and inclus of the space between the variou pod in ani one of those circl , the entir area at thi junctur , embrac by the whole multitud , must have contain at least two or three squar mile . At ani rate -- though inde such a test at such a time might be decept -- spout might be discov from our low boat that seem play up almost from the rim of the horizon . I mention thi circumst , becaus , as if the cow and calv had been purpos lock up in thi innermost fold ; and as if the wide extent of the herd had hitherto prevent them from learn the precis caus of it stop ; or , possibl , be so young , unsophist , and everi way innoc and inexperienc ; howev it may have been , these smaller whale -- now and then visit our becalm boat from the margin of the lake -- evinc a wondrou fearless and confid , or els a still becharm panic which it wa imposs not to marvel at . like household dog they came snuffl round us , right up to our gunwal , and touch them ; till it almost seem that some spell had suddenli domest them . queequeg pat their forehead ; starbuck scratch their back with hi lanc ; but fear of the consequ , for the time refrain from dart it . but far beneath thi wondrou world upon the surfac , anoth and still stranger world met our eye as we gaze over the side . for , suspend in those wateri vault , float the form of the nurs mother of the whale , and those that by their enorm girth seem shortli to becom mother . the lake , as I have hint , wa to a consider depth exceedingli transpar ; and as human infant while suckl will calmli and fixedli gaze away from the breast , as if lead two differ live at the time ; and while yet draw mortal nourish , be still spiritu feast upon some unearthli reminisc ; -- even so did the young of these whale seem look up toward us , but not at us , as if we were but a bit of gulfwe in their new - born sight . float on their side , the mother also seem quietli eye us . one of these littl infant , that from certain queer token seem hardli a day old , might have measur some fourteen feet in length , and some six feet in girth . He wa a littl friski ; though as yet hi bodi seem scarc yet recov from that irksom posit it had so late occupi in the matern reticul ; where , tail to head , and all readi for the final spring , the unborn whale lie bent like a tartar ' s bow . the delic side - fin , and the palm of hi fluke , still freshli retain the plait crumpl appear of a babi ' s ear newli arriv from foreign part . `` line ! line ! '' cri queequeg , look over the gunwal ; `` him fast ! him fast ! -- who line him ! who struck ? -- two whale ; one big , one littl ! '' `` what ail ye , man ? '' cri starbuck . `` look - e here , '' said queequeg , point down . As when the stricken whale , that from the tub ha reel out hundr of fathom of rope ; as , after deep sound , he float up again , and show the slacken curl line buoyantli rise and spiral toward the air ; so now , starbuck saw long coil of the umbil cord of madam leviathan , by which the young cub seem still tether to it dam . not seldom in the rapid vicissitud of the chase , thi natur line , with the matern end loos , becom entangl with the hempen one , so that the cub is therebi trap . some of the subtlest secret of the sea seem divulg to us in thi enchant pond . We saw young leviathan amour in the deep . * * the sperm whale , as with all other speci of the leviathan , but unlik most other fish , breed indiffer at all season ; after a gestat which may probabl be set down at nine month , produc but one at a time ; though in some few known instanc give birth to an esau and jacob : -- a conting provid for in suckl by two teat , curious situat , one on each side of the anu ; but the breast themselv extend upward from that . when by chanc these preciou part in a nurs whale are cut by the hunter ' s lanc , the mother ' s pour milk and blood rivallingli discolour the sea for rod . the milk is veri sweet and rich ; it ha been tast by man ; it might do well with strawberri . when overflow with mutual esteem , the whale salut more hominum . and thu , though surround by circl upon circl of constern and affright , did these inscrut creatur at the centr freeli and fearlessli indulg in all peac concern ; yea , seren revel in dallianc and delight . but even so , amid the tornado atlant of my be , do I myself still for ever central disport in mute calm ; and while ponder planet of unwan woe revolv round me , deep down and deep inland there I still bath me in etern mild of joy . meanwhil , as we thu lay entranc , the occasion sudden frantic spectacl in the distanc evinc the activ of the other boat , still engag in drug the whale on the frontier of the host ; or possibl carri on the war within the first circl , where abund of room and some conveni retreat were afford them . but the sight of the enrag drug whale now and then blindli dart to and fro across the circl , wa noth to what at last met our eye . It is sometim the custom when fast to a whale more than commonli power and alert , to seek to hamstr him , as it were , by sunder or maim hi gigant tail - tendon . It is done by dart a short - handl cut - spade , to which is attach a rope for haul it back again . A whale wound ( as we afterward learn ) in thi part , but not effectu , as it seem , had broken away from the boat , carri along with him half of the harpoon line ; and in the extraordinari agoni of the wound , he wa now dash among the revolv circl like the lone mount desperado arnold , at the battl of saratoga , carri dismay wherev he went . but agon as wa the wound of thi whale , and an appal spectacl enough , ani way ; yet the peculiar horror with which he seem to inspir the rest of the herd , wa owe to a caus which at first the interven distanc obscur from us . but at length we perceiv that by one of the unimagin accid of the fisheri , thi whale had becom entangl in the harpoon - line that he tow ; he had also run away with the cut - spade in him ; and while the free end of the rope attach to that weapon , had perman caught in the coil of the harpoon - line round hi tail , the cut - spade itself had work loos from hi flesh . So that torment to mad , he wa now churn through the water , violent flail with hi flexibl tail , and toss the keen spade about him , wound and murder hi own comrad . thi terrif object seem to recal the whole herd from their stationari fright . first , the whale form the margin of our lake began to crowd a littl , and tumbl against each other , as if lift by half spent billow from afar ; then the lake itself began faintli to heav and swell ; the submarin bridal - chamber and nurseri vanish ; in more and more contract orbit the whale in the more central circl began to swim in thicken cluster . ye , the long calm wa depart . A low advanc hum wa soon heard ; and then like to the tumultu mass of block - ice when the great river hudson break up in spring , the entir host of whale came tumbl upon their inner centr , as if to pile themselv up in one common mountain . instantli starbuck and queequeg chang place ; starbuck take the stern . `` oar ! oar ! '' he intens whisper , seiz the helm -- '' gripe your oar , and clutch your soul , now ! My god , men , stand by ! shove him off , you queequeg -- the whale there ! -- prick him ! -- hit him ! stand up -- stand up , and stay so ! spring , men -- pull , men ; never mind their back -- scrape them ! -- scrape away ! '' the boat wa now all but jam between two vast black bulk , leav a narrow dardanel between their long length . but by desper endeavor we at last shot into a temporari open ; then give way rapidli , and at the same time earnestli watch for anoth outlet . after mani similar hair - breadth escap , we at last swiftli glide into what had just been one of the outer circl , but now cross by random whale , all violent make for one centr . thi lucki salvat wa cheapli purchas by the loss of queequeg ' s hat , who , while stand in the bow to prick the fugit whale , had hi hat taken clean from hi head by the air - eddi made by the sudden toss of a pair of broad fluke close by . riotou and disord as the univers commot now wa , it soon resolv itself into what seem a systemat movement ; for have clump togeth at last in one dens bodi , they then renew their onward flight with augment fleet . further pursuit wa useless ; but the boat still linger in their wake to pick up what drug whale might be drop astern , and likewis to secur one which flask had kill and waif . the waif is a pennon pole , two or three of which are carri by everi boat ; and which , when addit game is at hand , are insert upright into the float bodi of a dead whale , both to mark it place on the sea , and also as token of prior possess , should the boat of ani other ship draw near . the result of thi lower wa somewhat illustr of that sagaci say in the fisheri , -- the more whale the less fish . Of all the drug whale onli one wa captur . the rest contriv to escap for the time , but onli to be taken , as will hereaft be seen , by some other craft than the pequod . chapter 88 school and schoolmast . the previou chapter gave account of an immens bodi or herd of sperm whale , and there wa also then given the probabl caus induc those vast aggreg . now , though such great bodi are at time encount , yet , as must have been seen , even at the present day , small detach band are occasion observ , embrac from twenti to fifti individu each . such band are known as school . they gener are of two sort ; those compos almost entir of femal , and those muster none but young vigor male , or bull , as they are familiarli design . In cavali attend upon the school of femal , you invari see a male of full grown magnitud , but not old ; who , upon ani alarm , evinc hi gallantri by fall in the rear and cover the flight of hi ladi . In truth , thi gentleman is a luxuri ottoman , swim about over the wateri world , surroundingli accompani by all the solac and endear of the harem . the contrast between thi ottoman and hi concubin is strike ; becaus , while he is alway of the largest leviathan proport , the ladi , even at full growth , are not more than one - third of the bulk of an averag - size male . they are compar delic , inde ; I dare say , not to exceed half a dozen yard round the waist . nevertheless , it can not be deni , that upon the whole they are hereditarili entitl to embonpoint . It is veri curiou to watch thi harem and it lord in their indol rambl . like fashion , they are for ever on the move in leisur search of varieti . you meet them on the line in time for the full flower of the equatori feed season , have just return , perhap , from spend the summer in the northern sea , and so cheat summer of all unpleas weari and warmth . By the time they have loung up and down the promenad of the equat awhil , they start for the orient water in anticip of the cool season there , and so evad the other excess temperatur of the year . when seren advanc on one of these journey , if ani strang suspici sight are seen , my lord whale keep a wari eye on hi interest famili . should ani unwarrant pert young leviathan come that way , presum to draw confidenti close to one of the ladi , with what prodigi furi the bashaw assail him , and chase him away ! high time , inde , if unprincipl young rake like him are to be permit to invad the sanctiti of domest bliss ; though do what the bashaw will , he can not keep the most notori lothario out of hi bed ; for , ala ! all fish bed in common . As ashor , the ladi often caus the most terribl duel among their rival admir ; just so with the whale , who sometim come to deadli battl , and all for love . they fenc with their long lower jaw , sometim lock them togeth , and so strive for the supremaci like elk that warringli interweav their antler . not a few are captur have the deep scar of these encount , -- furrow head , broken teeth , scollop fin ; and in some instanc , wrench and disloc mouth . but suppos the invad of domest bliss to betak himself away at the first rush of the harem ' s lord , then is it veri divert to watch that lord . gentli he insinu hi vast bulk among them again and revel there awhil , still in tantal vicin to young lothario , like piou solomon devoutli worship among hi thousand concubin . grant other whale to be in sight , the fishermen will seldom give chase to one of these grand turk ; for these grand turk are too lavish of their strength , and henc their unctuous is small . As for the son and the daughter they beget , whi , those son and daughter must take care of themselv ; at least , with onli the matern help . for like certain other omnivor rove lover that might be name , my lord whale ha no tast for the nurseri , howev much for the bower ; and so , be a great travel , he leav hi anonym babi all over the world ; everi babi an exot . In good time , nevertheless , as the ardour of youth declin ; as year and dump increas ; as reflect lend her solemn paus ; in short , as a gener lassitud overtak the sate turk ; then a love of eas and virtu supplant the love for maiden ; our ottoman enter upon the impot , repent , admonitori stage of life , forswear , disband the harem , and grown to an exemplari , sulki old soul , goe about all alon among the meridian and parallel say hi prayer , and warn each young leviathan from hi amor error . now , as the harem of whale is call by the fishermen a school , so is the lord and master of that school technic known as the schoolmast . It is therefor not in strict charact , howev admir satir , that after go to school himself , he should then go abroad inculc not what he learn there , but the folli of it . hi titl , schoolmast , would veri natur seem deriv from the name bestow upon the harem itself , but some have surmis that the man who first thu entitl thi sort of ottoman whale , must have read the memoir of vidocq , and inform himself what sort of a countri - schoolmast that famou frenchman wa in hi younger day , and what wa the natur of those occult lesson he inculc into some of hi pupil . the same secluded and isol to which the schoolmast whale betak himself in hi advanc year , is true of all age sperm whale . almost univers , a lone whale -- as a solitari leviathan is call -- prove an ancient one . like vener moss - beard daniel boon , he will have no one near him but natur herself ; and her he take to wife in the wilder of water , and the best of wive she is , though she keep so mani moodi secret . the school compos none but young and vigor male , previous mention , offer a strong contrast to the harem school . for while those femal whale are characterist timid , the young male , or forti - barrel - bull , as they call them , are by far the most pugnaci of all leviathan , and proverbi the most danger to encount ; except those wondrou grey - head , grizzl whale , sometim met , and these will fight you like grim fiend exasper by a penal gout . the forti - barrel - bull school are larger than the harem school . like a mob of young collegian , they are full of fight , fun , and wicked , tumbl round the world at such a reckless , rollick rate , that no prudent underwrit would insur them ani more than he would a riotou lad at yale or harvard . they soon relinquish thi turbul though , and when about three - fourth grown , break up , and separ go about in quest of settlement , that is , harem . anoth point of differ between the male and femal school is still more characterist of the sex . say you strike a forti - barrel - bull -- poor devil ! all hi comrad quit him . but strike a member of the harem school , and her companion swim around her with everi token of concern , sometim linger so near her and so long , as themselv to fall a prey . chapter 89 fast - fish and loos - fish . the allus to the waif and waif - pole in the last chapter but one , necessit some account of the law and regul of the whale fisheri , of which the waif may be deem the grand symbol and badg . It frequent happen that when sever ship are cruis in compani , a whale may be struck by one vessel , then escap , and be final kill and captur by anoth vessel ; and herein are indirectli compris mani minor conting , all partak of thi one grand featur . for exampl , -- after a weari and peril chase and captur of a whale , the bodi may get loos from the ship by reason of a violent storm ; and drift far away to leeward , be retaken by a second whaler , who , in a calm , snugli tow it alongsid , without risk of life or line . thu the most vexati and violent disput would often aris between the fishermen , were there not some written or unwritten , univers , undisput law applic to all case . perhap the onli formal whale code author by legisl enact , wa that of holland . It wa decre by the state - gener in A . D . 1695 . but though no other nation ha ever had ani written whale law , yet the american fishermen have been their own legisl and lawyer in thi matter . they have provid a system which for ters comprehens surpass justinian ' s pandect and the By - law of the chines societi for the suppress of meddl with other peopl ' s busi . ye ; these law might be engraven on a queen ann ' s forth , or the barb of a harpoon , and worn round the neck , so small are they . I . A fast - fish belong to the parti fast to it . II . A loos - fish is fair game for anybodi who can soonest catch it . but what play the mischief with thi masterli code is the admir breviti of it , which necessit a vast volum of commentari to expound it . first : what is a fast - fish ? aliv or dead a fish is technic fast , when it is connect with an occupi ship or boat , by ani medium at all control by the occup or occup , -- a mast , an oar , a nine - inch cabl , a telegraph wire , or a strand of cobweb , it is all the same . likewis a fish is technic fast when it bear a waif , or ani other recognis symbol of possess ; so long as the parti waif it plainli evinc their abil at ani time to take it alongsid , as well as their intent so to do . these are scientif commentari ; but the commentari of the whalemen themselv sometim consist in hard word and harder knock -- the coke - upon - littleton of the fist . true , among the more upright and honour whalemen allow are alway made for peculiar case , where it would be an outrag moral injustic for one parti to claim possess of a whale previous chase or kill by anoth parti . but other are by no mean so scrupul . some fifti year ago there wa a curiou case of whale - trover litig in england , wherein the plaintiff set forth that after a hard chase of a whale in the northern sea ; and when inde they ( the plaintiff ) had succeed in harpoon the fish ; they were at last , through peril of their live , oblig to forsak not onli their line , but their boat itself . ultim the defend ( the crew of anoth ship ) came up with the whale , struck , kill , seiz , and final appropri it befor the veri eye of the plaintiff . and when those defend were remonstr with , their captain snap hi finger in the plaintiff ' teeth , and assur them that by way of doxolog to the deed he had done , he would now retain their line , harpoon , and boat , which had remain attach to the whale at the time of the seizur . wherefor the plaintiff now su for the recoveri of the valu of their whale , line , harpoon , and boat . Mr . erskin wa counsel for the defend ; lord ellenborough wa the judg . In the cours of the defenc , the witti erskin went on to illustr hi posit , by allud to a recent crim . con . case , wherein a gentleman , after in vain tri to bridl hi wife ' s vicious , had at last abandon her upon the sea of life ; but in the cours of year , repent of that step , he institut an action to recov possess of her . erskin wa on the other side ; and he then support it by say , that though the gentleman had origin harpoon the ladi , and had onc had her fast , and onli by reason of the great stress of her plung vicious , had at last abandon her ; yet abandon her he did , so that she becam a loos - fish ; and therefor when a subsequ gentleman re - harpoon her , the ladi then becam that subsequ gentleman ' s properti , along with whatev harpoon might have been found stick in her . now in the present case erskin contend that the exampl of the whale and the ladi were reciproc illustr of each other . these plead , and the counter plead , be duli heard , the veri learn judg in set term decid , to wit , -- that as for the boat , he award it to the plaintiff , becaus they had mere abandon it to save their live ; but that with regard to the controvert whale , harpoon , and line , they belong to the defend ; the whale , becaus it wa a loos - fish at the time of the final captur ; and the harpoon and line becaus when the fish made off with them , it ( the fish ) acquir a properti in those articl ; and henc anybodi who afterward took the fish had a right to them . now the defend afterward took the fish ; ergo , the aforesaid articl were their . A common man look at thi decis of the veri learn judg , might possibl object to it . but plough up to the primari rock of the matter , the two great principl laid down in the twin whale law previous quot , and appli and elucid by lord ellenborough in the abov cite case ; these two law touch fast - fish and loos - fish , I say , will , on reflect , be found the fundament of all human jurisprud ; for notwithstand it complic traceri of sculptur , the templ of the law , like the templ of the philistin , ha but two prop to stand on . Is it not a say in everi one ' s mouth , possess is half of the law : that is , regardless of how the thing came into possess ? but often possess is the whole of the law . what are the sinew and soul of russian serf and republican slave but fast - fish , whereof possess is the whole of the law ? what to the rapaci landlord is the widow ' s last mite but a fast - fish ? what is yonder undetect villain ' s marbl mansion with a door - plate for a waif ; what is that but a fast - fish ? what is the ruinou discount which mordecai , the broker , get from poor woebegon , the bankrupt , on a loan to keep woebegon ' s famili from starvat ; what is that ruinou discount but a fast - fish ? what is the archbishop of savesoul ' s incom of l100 , 000 seiz from the scant bread and chees of hundr of thousand of broken - back labor ( all sure of heaven without ani of savesoul ' s help ) what is that globular l100 , 000 but a fast - fish ? what are the duke of dunder ' s hereditari town and hamlet but fast - fish ? what to that redoubt harpoon , john bull , is poor ireland , but a fast - fish ? what to that apostol lancer , brother jonathan , is texa but a fast - fish ? and concern all these , is not possess the whole of the law ? but if the doctrin of fast - fish be pretti gener applic , the kindr doctrin of loos - fish is still more wide so . that is intern and univers applic . what wa america in 1492 but a loos - fish , in which columbu struck the spanish standard by way of waif it for hi royal master and mistress ? what wa poland to the czar ? what greec to the turk ? what india to england ? what at last will mexico be to the unit state ? all loos - fish . what are the right of man and the liberti of the world but loos - fish ? what all men ' s mind and opinion but loos - fish ? what is the principl of religi belief in them but a loos - fish ? what to the ostentati smuggl verbalist are the thought of thinker but loos - fish ? what is the great globe itself but a loos - fish ? and what are you , reader , but a loos - fish and a fast - fish , too ? chapter 90 head or tail . `` De balena vero sufficit , si rex habeat caput , et regina caudam . '' bracton , L . 3 , C . 3 . latin from the book of the law of england , which taken along with the context , mean , that of all whale captur by anybodi on the coast of that land , the king , as honourari grand harpoon , must have the head , and the queen be respect present with the tail . A divis which , in the whale , is much like halv an appl ; there is no intermedi remaind . now as thi law , under a modifi form , is to thi day in forc in england ; and as it offer in variou respect a strang anomali touch the gener law of fast and loos - fish , it is here treat of in a separ chapter , on the same courteou principl that prompt the english railway to be at the expens of a separ car , special reserv for the accommod of royalti . In the first place , in curiou proof of the fact that the abov - mention law is still in forc , I proceed to lay befor you a circumst that happen within the last two year . It seem that some honest marin of dover , or sandwich , or some one of the cinqu port , had after a hard chase succeed in kill and beach a fine whale which they had origin descri afar off from the shore . now the cinqu port are partial or somehow under the jurisdict of a sort of policeman or beadl , call a lord warden . hold the offic directli from the crown , I believ , all the royal emolu incid to the cinqu port territori becom by assign hi . By some writer thi offic is call a sinecur . but not so . becaus the lord warden is busili employ at time in fob hi perquisit ; which are hi chiefli by virtu of that same fob of them . now when these poor sun - burnt marin , bare - foot , and with their trowser roll high up on their eeli leg , had wearili haul their fat fish high and dri , promis themselv a good l150 from the preciou oil and bone ; and in fantasi sip rare tea with their wive , and good ale with their croni , upon the strength of their respect share ; up step a veri learn and most christian and charit gentleman , with a copi of blackston under hi arm ; and lay it upon the whale ' s head , he say -- '' hand off ! thi fish , my master , is a fast - fish . I seiz it as the lord warden ' s . '' upon thi the poor marin in their respect constern -- so truli english -- know not what to say , fall to vigor scratch their head all round ; meanwhil ruefulli glanc from the whale to the stranger . but that did in nowis mend the matter , or at all soften the hard heart of the learn gentleman with the copi of blackston . At length one of them , after long scratch about for hi idea , made bold to speak , `` pleas , sir , who is the lord warden ? '' `` the duke . '' `` but the duke had noth to do with take thi fish ? '' `` It is hi . '' `` We have been at great troubl , and peril , and some expens , and is all that to go to the duke ' s benefit ; we get noth at all for our pain but our blister ? '' `` It is hi . '' `` Is the duke so veri poor as to be forc to thi desper mode of get a livelihood ? '' `` It is hi . '' `` I thought to reliev my old bed - ridden mother by part of my share of thi whale . '' `` It is hi . '' `` won ' t the duke be content with a quarter or a half ? '' `` It is hi . '' In a word , the whale wa seiz and sold , and hi grace the duke of wellington receiv the money . think that view in some particular light , the case might by a bare possibl in some small degre be deem , under the circumst , a rather hard one , an honest clergyman of the town respect address a note to hi grace , beg him to take the case of those unfortun marin into full consider . To which my lord duke in substanc repli ( both letter were publish ) that he had alreadi done so , and receiv the money , and would be oblig to the reverend gentleman if for the futur he ( the reverend gentleman ) would declin meddl with other peopl ' s busi . Is thi the still milit old man , stand at the corner of the three kingdom , on all hand coerc alm of beggar ? It will readili be seen that in thi case the alleg right of the duke to the whale wa a deleg one from the sovereign . We must need inquir then on what principl the sovereign is origin invest with that right . the law itself ha alreadi been set forth . but plowdon give us the reason for it . say plowdon , the whale so caught belong to the king and queen , `` becaus of it superior excel . '' and by the soundest comment thi ha ever been held a cogent argument in such matter . but whi should the king have the head , and the queen the tail ? A reason for that , ye lawyer ! In hi treatis on `` queen - gold , '' or queen - pinmoney , an old king ' s bench author , one william prynn , thu discourseth : `` Ye tail is ye queen ' s , that ye queen ' s wardrob may be suppli with ye whalebon . '' now thi wa written at a time when the black limber bone of the greenland or right whale wa larg use in ladi ' bodic . but thi same bone is not in the tail ; it is in the head , which is a sad mistak for a sagaci lawyer like prynn . but is the queen a mermaid , to be present with a tail ? An allegor mean may lurk here . there are two royal fish so style by the english law writer -- the whale and the sturgeon ; both royal properti under certain limit , and nomin suppli the tenth branch of the crown ' s ordinari revenu . I know not that ani other author ha hint of the matter ; but by infer it seem to me that the sturgeon must be divid in the same way as the whale , the king receiv the highli dens and elast head peculiar to that fish , which , symbol regard , may possibl be humor ground upon some presum congeni . and thu there seem a reason in all thing , even in law . chapter 91 the pequod meet the rose - bud . `` In vain it wa to rake for ambergries in the paunch of thi leviathan , insuffer fetor deni not inquiri . '' sir T . brown , V . E . It wa a week or two after the last whale scene recount , and when we were slowli sail over a sleepi , vapouri , mid - day sea , that the mani nose on the pequod ' s deck prove more vigil discover than the three pair of eye aloft . A peculiar and not veri pleasant smell wa smelt in the sea . `` I will bet someth now , '' said stubb , `` that somewher hereabout are some of those drug whale we tickl the other day . I thought they would keel up befor long . '' present , the vapour in advanc slid asid ; and there in the distanc lay a ship , whose furl sail betoken that some sort of whale must be alongsid . As we glide nearer , the stranger show french colour from hi peak ; and by the eddi cloud of vultur sea - fowl that circl , and hover , and swoop around him , it wa plain that the whale alongsid must be what the fishermen call a blast whale , that is , a whale that ha die unmolest on the sea , and so float an unappropri corps . It may well be conceiv , what an unsavori odor such a mass must exhal ; wors than an assyrian citi in the plagu , when the live are incompet to buri the depart . So intoler inde is it regard by some , that no cupid could persuad them to moor alongsid of it . yet are there those who will still do it ; notwithstand the fact that the oil obtain from such subject is of a veri inferior qualiti , and by no mean of the natur of attar - of - rose . come still nearer with the expir breez , we saw that the frenchman had a second whale alongsid ; and thi second whale seem even more of a nosegay than the first . In truth , it turn out to be one of those problemat whale that seem to dri up and die with a sort of prodigi dyspepsia , or indigest ; leav their defunct bodi almost entir bankrupt of anyth like oil . nevertheless , in the proper place we shall see that no know fisherman will ever turn up hi nose at such a whale as thi , howev much he may shun blast whale in gener . the pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger , that stubb vow he recognis hi cut spade - pole entangl in the line that were knot round the tail of one of these whale . `` there ' s a pretti fellow , now , '' he banteringli laugh , stand in the ship ' s bow , `` there ' s a jackal for ye ! I well know that these crappo of frenchmen are but poor devil in the fisheri ; sometim lower their boat for breaker , mistak them for sperm whale spout ; ye , and sometim sail from their port with their hold full of box of tallow candl , and case of snuffer , forese that all the oil they will get won ' t be enough to dip the captain ' s wick into ; aye , we all know these thing ; but look ye , here ' s a crappo that is content with our leav , the drug whale there , I mean ; aye , and is content too with scrape the dri bone of that other preciou fish he ha there . poor devil ! I say , pass round a hat , some one , and let ' s make him a present of a littl oil for dear chariti ' s sake . for what oil he ' ll get from that drug whale there , wouldn ' t be fit to burn in a jail ; no , not in a condemn cell . and as for the other whale , whi , I ' ll agre to get more oil by chop up and tri out these three mast of our , than he ' ll get from that bundl of bone ; though , now that I think of it , it may contain someth worth a good deal more than oil ; ye , ambergri . I wonder now if our old man ha thought of that . It ' s worth tri . ye , I ' m for it ; '' and so say he start for the quarter - deck . By thi time the faint air had becom a complet calm ; so that whether or no , the pequod wa now fairli entrap in the smell , with no hope of escap except by it breez up again . issu from the cabin , stubb now call hi boat ' s crew , and pull off for the stranger . draw across her bow , he perceiv that in accord with the fanci french tast , the upper part of her stem - piec wa carv in the like of a huge droop stalk , wa paint green , and for thorn had copper spike project from it here and there ; the whole termin in a symmetr fold bulb of a bright red colour . upon her head board , in larg gilt letter , he read `` bouton de rose , '' -- rose - button , or rose - bud ; and thi wa the romant name of thi aromat ship . though stubb did not understand the bouton part of the inscript , yet the word rose , and the bulbou figur - head put togeth , suffici explain the whole to him . `` A wooden rose - bud , eh ? '' he cri with hi hand to hi nose , `` that will do veri well ; but how like all creation it smell ! '' now in order to hold direct commun with the peopl on deck , he had to pull round the bow to the starboard side , and thu come close to the blast whale ; and so talk over it . arriv then at thi spot , with one hand still to hi nose , he bawl -- '' bouton - de - rose , ahoy ! are there ani of you bouton - de - rose that speak english ? '' `` ye , '' rejoin a guernsey - man from the bulwark , who turn out to be the chief - mate . `` well , then , my bouton - de - rose - bud , have you seen the white whale ? '' `` what whale ? '' `` the white whale -- a sperm whale -- mobi dick , have ye seen him ? `` never heard of such a whale . cachalot blanch ! white whale -- no . '' `` veri good , then ; good bye now , and I ' ll call again in a minut . '' then rapidli pull back toward the pequod , and see ahab lean over the quarter - deck rail await hi report , he mould hi two hand into a trumpet and shout -- '' No , sir ! No ! '' upon which ahab retir , and stubb return to the frenchman . He now perceiv that the guernsey - man , who had just got into the chain , and wa use a cut - spade , had slung hi nose in a sort of bag . `` what ' s the matter with your nose , there ? '' said stubb . `` broke it ? '' `` I wish it wa broken , or that I didn ' t have ani nose at all ! '' answer the guernsey - man , who did not seem to relish the job he wa at veri much . `` but what are you hold your for ? '' `` Oh , noth ! It ' s a wax nose ; I have to hold it on . fine day , ain ' t it ? air rather gardenni , I should say ; throw us a bunch of posi , will ye , bouton - de - rose ? '' `` what in the devil ' s name do you want here ? '' roar the guernseyman , fli into a sudden passion . `` Oh ! keep cool -- cool ? ye , that ' s the word ! whi don ' t you pack those whale in ice while you ' re work at ' em ? but joke asid , though ; do you know , rose - bud , that it ' s all nonsens tri to get ani oil out of such whale ? As for that dri up one , there , he hasn ' t a gill in hi whole carcas . '' `` I know that well enough ; but , d ' ye see , the captain here won ' t believ it ; thi is hi first voyag ; he wa a cologn manufactur befor . but come aboard , and mayhap he ' ll believ you , if he won ' t me ; and so I ' ll get out of thi dirti scrape . '' `` anyth to oblig ye , my sweet and pleasant fellow , '' rejoin stubb , and with that he soon mount to the deck . there a queer scene present itself . the sailor , in tassel cap of red worst , were get the heavi tackl in readi for the whale . but they work rather slow and talk veri fast , and seem in anyth but a good humor . all their nose upwardli project from their face like so mani jib - boom . now and then pair of them would drop their work , and run up to the mast - head to get some fresh air . some think they would catch the plagu , dip oakum in coal - tar , and at interv held it to their nostril . other have broken the stem of their pipe almost short off at the bowl , were vigor puf tobacco - smoke , so that it constantli fill their olfactori . stubb wa struck by a shower of outcri and anathema proceed from the captain ' s round - hous abaft ; and look in that direct saw a fieri face thrust from behind the door , which wa held ajar from within . thi wa the torment surgeon , who , after in vain remonstr against the proceed of the day , had betaken himself to the captain ' s round - hous ( cabinet he call it ) to avoid the pest ; but still , could not help yell out hi entreati and indign at time . mark all thi , stubb argu well for hi scheme , and turn to the guernsey - man had a littl chat with him , dure which the stranger mate express hi detest of hi captain as a conceit ignoramu , who had brought them all into so unsavori and unprofit a pickl . sound him care , stubb further perceiv that the guernsey - man had not the slightest suspicion concern the ambergri . He therefor held hi peac on that head , but otherwis wa quit frank and confidenti with him , so that the two quickli concoct a littl plan for both circumv and satir the captain , without hi at all dream of distrust their sincer . accord to thi littl plan of their , the guernsey - man , under cover of an interpret ' s offic , wa to tell the captain what he pleas , but as come from stubb ; and as for stubb , he wa to utter ani nonsens that should come uppermost in him dure the interview . By thi time their destin victim appear from hi cabin . He wa a small and dark , but rather delic look man for a sea - captain , with larg whisker and moustach , howev ; and wore a red cotton velvet vest with watch - seal at hi side . To thi gentleman , stubb wa now polit introduc by the guernsey - man , who at onc ostentati put on the aspect of interpret between them . `` what shall I say to him first ? '' said he . `` whi , '' said stubb , eye the velvet vest and the watch and seal , `` you may as well begin by tell him that he look a sort of babyish to me , though I don ' t pretend to be a judg . '' `` He say , monsieur , '' said the guernsey - man , in french , turn to hi captain , `` that onli yesterday hi ship spoke a vessel , whose captain and chief - mate , with six sailor , had all die of a fever caught from a blast whale they had brought alongsid . '' upon thi the captain start , and eagerli desir to know more . `` what now ? '' said the guernsey - man to stubb . `` whi , sinc he take it so easi , tell him that now I have eye him care , I ' m quit certain that he ' s no more fit to command a whale - ship than a St . jago monkey . In fact , tell him from me he ' s a baboon . '' `` He vow and declar , monsieur , that the other whale , the dri one , is far more deadli than the blast one ; in fine , monsieur , he conjur us , as we valu our live , to cut loos from these fish . '' instantli the captain ran forward , and in a loud voic command hi crew to desist from hoist the cut - tackl , and at onc cast loos the cabl and chain confin the whale to the ship . `` what now ? '' said the guernsey - man , when the captain had return to them . `` whi , let me see ; ye , you may as well tell him now that -- that -- in fact , tell him I ' ve diddl him , and ( asid to himself ) perhap somebodi els . '' `` He say , monsieur , that he ' s veri happi to have been of ani servic to us . '' hear thi , the captain vow that they were the grate parti ( mean himself and mate ) and conclud by invit stubb down into hi cabin to drink a bottl of bordeaux . `` He want you to take a glass of wine with him , '' said the interpret . `` thank him heartili ; but tell him it ' s against my principl to drink with the man I ' ve diddl . In fact , tell him I must go . '' `` He say , monsieur , that hi principl won ' t admit of hi drink ; but that if monsieur want to live anoth day to drink , then monsieur had best drop all four boat , and pull the ship away from these whale , for it ' s so calm they won ' t drift . '' By thi time stubb wa over the side , and get into hi boat , hail the guernsey - man to thi effect , -- that have a long tow - line in hi boat , he would do what he could to help them , by pull out the lighter whale of the two from the ship ' s side . while the frenchman ' s boat , then , were engag in tow the ship one way , stubb benevol tow away at hi whale the other way , ostentati slack out a most unusu long tow - line . present a breez sprang up ; stubb feign to cast off from the whale ; hoist hi boat , the frenchman soon increas hi distanc , while the pequod slid in between him and stubb ' s whale . whereupon stubb quickli pull to the float bodi , and hail the pequod to give notic of hi intent , at onc proceed to reap the fruit of hi unright cun . seiz hi sharp boat - spade , he commenc an excav in the bodi , a littl behind the side fin . you would almost have thought he wa dig a cellar there in the sea ; and when at length hi spade struck against the gaunt rib , it wa like turn up old roman tile and potteri buri in fat english loam . hi boat ' s crew were all in high excit , eagerli help their chief , and look as anxiou as gold - hunter . and all the time numberless fowl were dive , and duck , and scream , and yell , and fight around them . stubb wa begin to look disappoint , especi as the horribl nosegay increas , when suddenli from out the veri heart of thi plagu , there stole a faint stream of perfum , which flow through the tide of bad smell without be absorb by it , as one river will flow into and then along with anoth , without at all blend with it for a time . `` I have it , I have it , '' cri stubb , with delight , strike someth in the subterranean region , `` a purs ! a purs ! '' drop hi spade , he thrust both hand in , and drew out hand of someth that look like ripe windsor soap , or rich mottl old chees ; veri unctuou and savori withal . you might easili dent it with your thumb ; it is of a hue between yellow and ash colour . and thi , good friend , is ambergri , worth a gold guinea an ounc to ani druggist . some six hand were obtain ; but more wa unavoid lost in the sea , and still more , perhap , might have been secur were it not for impati ahab ' s loud command to stubb to desist , and come on board , els the ship would bid them good bye . chapter 92 ambergri . now thi ambergri is a veri curiou substanc , and so import as an articl of commerc , that in 1791 a certain nantucket - born captain coffin wa examin at the bar of the english hous of common on that subject . for at that time , and inde until a compar late day , the precis origin of ambergri remain , like amber itself , a problem to the learn . though the word ambergri is but the french compound for grey amber , yet the two substanc are quit distinct . for amber , though at time found on the sea - coast , is also dug up in some far inland soil , wherea ambergri is never found except upon the sea . besid , amber is a hard , transpar , brittl , odorless substanc , use for mouth - piec to pipe , for bead and ornament ; but ambergri is soft , waxi , and so highli fragrant and spici , that it is larg use in perfumeri , in pastil , preciou candl , hair - powder , and pomatum . the turk use it in cook , and also carri it to mecca , for the same purpos that frankincens is carri to St . peter ' s in rome . some wine merchant drop a few grain into claret , to flavor it . who would think , then , that such fine ladi and gentlemen should regal themselv with an essenc found in the inglori bowel of a sick whale ! yet so it is . By some , ambergri is suppos to be the caus , and by other the effect , of the dyspepsia in the whale . how to cure such a dyspepsia it were hard to say , unless by administ three or four boat load of brandreth ' s pill , and then run out of harm ' s way , as labor do in blast rock . I have forgotten to say that there were found in thi ambergri , certain hard , round , boni plate , which at first stubb thought might be sailor ' trowser button ; but it afterward turn out that they were noth more than piec of small squid bone embalm in that manner . now that the incorrupt of thi most fragrant ambergri should be found in the heart of such decay ; is thi noth ? bethink thee of that say of St . paul in corinthian , about corrupt and incorrupt ; how that we are sown in dishonour , but rais in glori . and likewis call to mind that say of paracelsu about what it is that maketh the best musk . also forget not the strang fact that of all thing of ill - savor , cologn - water , in it rudiment manufactur stage , is the worst . I should like to conclud the chapter with the abov appeal , but can not , owe to my anxieti to repel a charg often made against whalemen , and which , in the estim of some alreadi bias mind , might be consid as indirectli substanti by what ha been said of the frenchman ' s two whale . elsewher in thi volum the slander aspers ha been disprov , that the vocat of whale is throughout a slatternli , untidi busi . but there is anoth thing to rebut . they hint that all whale alway smell bad . now how did thi odiou stigma origin ? I opin , that it is plainli traceabl to the first arriv of the greenland whale ship in london , more than two centuri ago . becaus those whalemen did not then , and do not now , tri out their oil at sea as the southern ship have alway done ; but cut up the fresh blubber in small bit , thrust it through the bung hole of larg cask , and carri it home in that manner ; the short of the season in those ici sea , and the sudden and violent storm to which they are expos , forbid ani other cours . the consequ is , that upon break into the hold , and unload one of these whale cemeteri , in the greenland dock , a savor is given forth somewhat similar to that aris from excav an old citi grave - yard , for the foundat of a ly - in - hospit . I partli surmis also , that thi wick charg against whaler may be likewis imput to the exist on the coast of greenland , in former time , of a dutch villag call schmerenburgh or smeerenberg , which latter name is the one use by the learn fogo von slack , in hi great work on smell , a text - book on that subject . As it name import ( smeer , fat ; berg , to put up ) , thi villag wa found in order to afford a place for the blubber of the dutch whale fleet to be tri out , without be taken home to holland for that purpos . It wa a collect of furnac , fat - kettl , and oil shed ; and when the work were in full oper certainli gave forth no veri pleasant savor . but all thi is quit differ with a south sea sperm whaler ; which in a voyag of four year perhap , after complet fill her hold with oil , doe not , perhap , consum fifti day in the busi of boil out ; and in the state that it is cask , the oil is nearli scentless . the truth is , that live or dead , if but decent treat , whale as a speci are by no mean creatur of ill odor ; nor can whalemen be recognis , as the peopl of the middl age affect to detect a jew in the compani , by the nose . nor inde can the whale possibl be otherwis than fragrant , when , as a gener thing , he enjoy such high health ; take abund of exercis ; alway out of door ; though , it is true , seldom in the open air . I say , that the motion of a sperm whale ' s fluke abov water dispens a perfum , as when a musk - scent ladi rustl her dress in a warm parlor . what then shall I liken the sperm whale to for fragranc , consid hi magnitud ? must it not be to that famou eleph , with jewel tusk , and redol with myrrh , which wa led out of an indian town to do honour to alexand the great ? chapter 93 the castaway . It wa but some few day after encount the frenchman , that a most signific event befel the most insignific of the pequod ' s crew ; an event most lament ; and which end in provid the sometim madli merri and predestin craft with a live and ever accompani propheci of whatev shatter sequel might prove her own . now , in the whale ship , it is not everi one that goe in the boat . some few hand are reserv call ship - keeper , whose provinc it is to work the vessel while the boat are pursu the whale . As a gener thing , these ship - keeper are as hardi fellow as the men compris the boat ' crew . but if there happen to be an unduli slender , clumsi , or timor wight in the ship , that wight is certain to be made a ship - keeper . It wa so in the pequod with the littl negro pippin by nick - name , pip by abbrevi . poor pip ! ye have heard of him befor ; ye must rememb hi tambourin on that dramat midnight , so gloomi - jolli . In outer aspect , pip and dough - boy made a match , like a black poni and a white one , of equal develop , though of dissimilar colour , driven in one eccentr span . but while hapless dough - boy wa by natur dull and torpid in hi intellect , pip , though over tender - heart , wa at bottom veri bright , with that pleasant , genial , jolli bright peculiar to hi tribe ; a tribe , which ever enjoy all holiday and festiv with finer , freer relish than ani other race . for black , the year ' s calendar should show naught but three hundr and sixti - five fourth of juli and new year ' s day . nor smile so , while I write that thi littl black wa brilliant , for even black ha it brillianc ; behold yon lustrou eboni , panel in king ' s cabinet . but pip love life , and all life ' s peaceabl secur ; so that the panic - strike busi in which he had somehow unaccount becom entrap , had most sadli blur hi bright ; though , as ere long will be seen , what wa thu temporarili subdu in him , in the end wa destin to be luridli illumin by strang wild fire , that fictiti show him off to ten time the natur lustr with which in hi nativ tolland counti in connecticut , he had onc enliven mani a fiddler ' s frolic on the green ; and at melodi even - tide , with hi gay ha - ha ! had turn the round horizon into one star - bell tambourin . So , though in the clear air of day , suspend against a blue - vein neck , the pure - water diamond drop will health glow ; yet , when the cun jewel would show you the diamond in it most impress lustr , he lay it against a gloomi ground , and then light it up , not by the sun , but by some unnatur gase . then come out those fieri effulg , infern superb ; then the evil - blaze diamond , onc the divinest symbol of the crystal sky , look like some crown - jewel stolen from the king of hell . but let us to the stori . It came to pass , that in the ambergri affair stubb ' s after - oarsman chanc so to sprain hi hand , as for a time to becom quit maim ; and , temporarili , pip wa put into hi place . the first time stubb lower with him , pip evinc much nervous ; but happili , for that time , escap close contact with the whale ; and therefor came off not altogeth discredit ; though stubb observ him , took care , afterward , to exhort him to cherish hi courag to the utmost , for he might often find it need . now upon the second lower , the boat paddl upon the whale ; and as the fish receiv the dart iron , it gave it customari rap , which happen , in thi instanc , to be right under poor pip ' s seat . the involuntari constern of the moment caus him to leap , paddl in hand , out of the boat ; and in such a way , that part of the slack whale line come against hi chest , he breast it overboard with him , so as to becom entangl in it , when at last plump into the water . that instant the stricken whale start on a fierc run , the line swiftli straighten ; and presto ! poor pip came all foam up to the chock of the boat , remorselessli drag there by the line , which had taken sever turn around hi chest and neck . tashtego stood in the bow . He wa full of the fire of the hunt . He hate pip for a poltroon . snatch the boat - knife from it sheath , he suspend it sharp edg over the line , and turn toward stubb , exclaim interrog , `` cut ? '' meantim pip ' s blue , choke face plainli look , Do , for god ' s sake ! all pass in a flash . In less than half a minut , thi entir thing happen . `` damn him , cut ! '' roar stubb ; and so the whale wa lost and pip wa save . So soon as he recov himself , the poor littl negro wa assail by yell and execr from the crew . tranquilli permit these irregular curs to evapor , stubb then in a plain , busi - like , but still half humor manner , curs pip offici ; and that done , unoffici gave him much wholesom advic . the substanc wa , never jump from a boat , pip , except -- but all the rest wa indefinit , as the soundest advic ever is . now , in gener , stick TO the boat , is your true motto in whale ; but case will sometim happen when leap from the boat , is still better . moreov , as if perceiv at last that if he should give undilut conscienti advic to pip , he would be leav him too wide a margin to jump in for the futur ; stubb suddenli drop all advic , and conclud with a peremptori command , `` stick to the boat , pip , or by the lord , I won ' t pick you up if you jump ; mind that . We can ' t afford to lose whale by the like of you ; a whale would sell for thirti time what you would , pip , in alabama . bear that in mind , and don ' t jump ani more . '' herebi perhap stubb indirectli hint , that though man love hi fellow , yet man is a money - make anim , which propens too often interfer with hi benevol . but we are all in the hand of the god ; and pip jump again . It wa under veri similar circumst to the first perform ; but thi time he did not breast out the line ; and henc , when the whale start to run , pip wa left behind on the sea , like a hurri travel ' s trunk . ala ! stubb wa but too true to hi word . It wa a beauti , bounteou , blue day ; the spangl sea calm and cool , and flatli stretch away , all round , to the horizon , like gold - beater ' s skin hammer out to the extremest . bob up and down in that sea , pip ' s ebon head show like a head of clove . No boat - knife wa lift when he fell so rapidli astern . stubb ' s inexor back wa turn upon him ; and the whale wa wing . In three minut , a whole mile of shoreless ocean wa between pip and stubb . out from the centr of the sea , poor pip turn hi crisp , curl , black head to the sun , anoth lone castaway , though the loftiest and the brightest . now , in calm weather , to swim in the open ocean is as easi to the practis swimmer as to ride in a spring - carriag ashor . but the aw lonesom is intoler . the intens concentr of self in the middl of such a heartless immens , my god ! who can tell it ? mark , how when sailor in a dead calm bath in the open sea -- mark how close they hug their ship and onli coast along her side . but had stubb realli abandon the poor littl negro to hi fate ? No ; he did not mean to , at least . becaus there were two boat in hi wake , and he suppos , no doubt , that they would of cours come up to pip veri quickli , and pick him up ; though , inde , such consider toward oarsmen jeopard through their own timid , is not alway manifest by the hunter in all similar instanc ; and such instanc not unfrequ occur ; almost invari in the fisheri , a coward , so call , is mark with the same ruthless detest peculiar to militari navi and armi . but it so happen , that those boat , without see pip , suddenli spi whale close to them on one side , turn , and gave chase ; and stubb ' s boat wa now so far away , and he and all hi crew so intent upon hi fish , that pip ' s ring horizon began to expand around him miser . By the merest chanc the ship itself at last rescu him ; but from that hour the littl negro went about the deck an idiot ; such , at least , they said he wa . the sea had jeeringli kept hi finit bodi up , but drown the infinit of hi soul . not drown entir , though . rather carri down aliv to wondrou depth , where strang shape of the unwarp primal world glide to and fro befor hi passiv eye ; and the miser - merman , wisdom , reveal hi hoard heap ; and among the joyou , heartless , ever - juvenil etern , pip saw the multitudin , god - omnipres , coral insect , that out of the firmament of water heav the coloss orb . He saw god ' s foot upon the treadl of the loom , and spoke it ; and therefor hi shipmat call him mad . So man ' s insan is heaven ' s sens ; and wander from all mortal reason , man come at last to that celesti thought , which , to reason , is absurd and frantic ; and weal or woe , feel then uncompromis , indiffer as hi god . for the rest , blame not stubb too hardli . the thing is common in that fisheri ; and in the sequel of the narr , it will then be seen what like abandon befel myself . chapter 94 A squeez of the hand . that whale of stubb ' s , so dearli purchas , wa duli brought to the pequod ' s side , where all those cut and hoist oper previous detail , were regularli gone through , even to the bale of the heidelburgh tun , or case . while some were occupi with thi latter duti , other were employ in drag away the larger tub , so soon as fill with the sperm ; and when the proper time arriv , thi same sperm wa care manipul ere go to the tri - work , of which anon . It had cool and crystal to such a degre , that when , with sever other , I sat down befor a larg constantin ' s bath of it , I found it strang concret into lump , here and there roll about in the liquid part . It wa our busi to squeez these lump back into fluid . A sweet and unctuou duti ! No wonder that in old time thi sperm wa such a favourit cosmet . such a clearer ! such a sweeten ! such a soften ! such a delici molifi ! after have my hand in it for onli a few minut , my finger felt like eel , and began , as it were , to serpentin and spiralis . As I sat there at my eas , cross - leg on the deck ; after the bitter exert at the windlass ; under a blue tranquil sky ; the ship under indol sail , and glide so seren along ; as I bath my hand among those soft , gentl globul of infiltr tissu , woven almost within the hour ; as they richli broke to my finger , and discharg all their opul , like fulli ripe grape their wine ; as I snuf up that uncontamin aroma , -- liter and truli , like the smell of spring violet ; I declar to you , that for the time I live as in a muski meadow ; I forgot all about our horribl oath ; in that inexpress sperm , I wash my hand and my heart of it ; I almost began to credit the old paracelsan superstit that sperm is of rare virtu in allay the heat of anger ; while bath in that bath , I felt divin free from all ill - will , or petul , or malic , of ani sort whatsoev . squeez ! squeez ! squeez ! all the morn long ; I squeez that sperm till I myself almost melt into it ; I squeez that sperm till a strang sort of insan came over me ; and I found myself unwittingli squeez my co - labor ' hand in it , mistak their hand for the gentl globul . such an abound , affection , friendli , love feel did thi avoc beget ; that at last I wa continu squeez their hand , and look up into their eye sentiment ; as much as to say , -- Oh ! my dear fellow be , whi should we longer cherish ani social acerb , or know the slightest ill - humor or envi ! come ; let us squeez hand all round ; nay , let us all squeez ourselv into each other ; let us squeez ourselv univers into the veri milk and sperm of kind . would that I could keep squeez that sperm for ever ! for now , sinc by mani prolong , repeat experi , I have perceiv that in all case man must eventu lower , or at least shift , hi conceit of attain felic ; not place it anywher in the intellect or the fanci ; but in the wife , the heart , the bed , the tabl , the saddl , the firesid , the countri ; now that I have perceiv all thi , I am readi to squeez case etern . In thought of the vision of the night , I saw long row of angel in paradis , each with hi hand in a jar of spermaceti . now , while discours of sperm , it behoov to speak of other thing akin to it , in the busi of prepar the sperm whale for the tri - work . first come white - hors , so call , which is obtain from the taper part of the fish , and also from the thicker portion of hi fluke . It is tough with congeal tendon -- a wad of muscl -- but still contain some oil . after be sever from the whale , the white - hors is first cut into portabl oblong ere go to the mincer . they look much like block of berkshir marbl . plum - pud is the term bestow upon certain fragmentari part of the whale ' s flesh , here and there adher to the blanket of blubber , and often particip to a consider degre in it unctuous . It is a most refresh , convivi , beauti object to behold . As it name import , it is of an exceedingli rich , mottl tint , with a bestreak snowi and golden ground , dot with spot of the deepest crimson and purpl . It is plum of rubi , in pictur of citron . spite of reason , it is hard to keep yourself from eat it . I confess , that onc I stole behind the foremast to tri it . It tast someth as I should conceiv a royal cutlet from the thigh of loui le gro might have tast , suppos him to have been kill the first day after the venison season , and that particular venison season contemporari with an unusu fine vintag of the vineyard of champagn . there is anoth substanc , and a veri singular one , which turn up in the cours of thi busi , but which I feel it to be veri puzzl adequ to describ . It is call slobgollion ; an appel origin with the whalemen , and even so is the natur of the substanc . It is an ineff oozi , stringi affair , most frequent found in the tub of sperm , after a prolong squeez , and subsequ decant . I hold it to be the wondrous thin , ruptur membran of the case , coalesc . gurri , so call , is a term properli belong to right whalemen , but sometim incident use by the sperm fishermen . It design the dark , glutin substanc which is scrape off the back of the greenland or right whale , and much of which cover the deck of those inferior soul who hunt that ignobl leviathan . nipper . strictli thi word is not indigen to the whale ' s vocabulari . but as appli by whalemen , it becom so . A whaleman ' s nipper is a short firm strip of tendin stuff cut from the taper part of leviathan ' s tail : it averag an inch in thick , and for the rest , is about the size of the iron part of a hoe . edgewis move along the oili deck , it oper like a leathern squilge ; and by nameless blandish , as of magic , allur along with it all impur . but to learn all about these recondit matter , your best way is at onc to descend into the blubber - room , and have a long talk with it inmat . thi place ha previous been mention as the receptacl for the blanket - piec , when stript and hoist from the whale . when the proper time arriv for cut up it content , thi apart is a scene of terror to all tyro , especi by night . On one side , lit by a dull lantern , a space ha been left clear for the workmen . they gener go in pair , -- a pike - and - gaffman and a spade - man . the whale - pike is similar to a frigat ' s board - weapon of the same name . the gaff is someth like a boat - hook . with hi gaff , the gaffman hook on to a sheet of blubber , and strive to hold it from slip , as the ship pitch and lurch about . meanwhil , the spade - man stand on the sheet itself , perpendicularli chop it into the portabl hors - piec . thi spade is sharp as hone can make it ; the spademan ' s feet are shoeless ; the thing he stand on will sometim irresist slide away from him , like a sledg . If he cut off one of hi own toe , or one of hi assist ' , would you be veri much astonish ? toe are scarc among veteran blubber - room men . chapter 95 the cassock . had you step on board the pequod at a certain junctur of thi post - mortem of the whale ; and had you stroll forward nigh the windlass , pretti sure am I that you would have scan with no small curios a veri strang , enigmat object , which you would have seen there , lie along lengthwis in the lee scupper . not the wondrou cistern in the whale ' s huge head ; not the prodigi of hi unhing lower jaw ; not the miracl of hi symmetr tail ; none of these would so surpris you , as half a glimps of that unaccount cone , -- longer than a kentuckian is tall , nigh a foot in diamet at the base , and jet - black as yojo , the eboni idol of queequeg . and an idol , inde , it is ; or , rather , in old time , it like wa . such an idol as that found in the secret grove of queen maachah in judea ; and for worship which , king asa , her son , did depos her , and destroy the idol , and burnt it for an abomin at the brook kedron , as darkli set forth in the 15th chapter of the first book of king . look at the sailor , call the mincer , who now come along , and assist by two alli , heavili back the grandissimu , as the marin call it , and with bow shoulder , stagger off with it as if he were a grenadi carri a dead comrad from the field . extend it upon the forecastl deck , he now proce cylindr to remov it dark pelt , as an african hunter the pelt of a boa . thi done he turn the pelt insid out , like a pantaloon leg ; give it a good stretch , so as almost to doubl it diamet ; and at last hang it , well spread , in the rig , to dri . ere long , it is taken down ; when remov some three feet of it , toward the point extrem , and then cut two slit for arm - hole at the other end , he lengthwis slip himself bodili into it . the mincer now stand befor you invest in the full canon of hi call . immemori to all hi order , thi investitur alon will adequ protect him , while employ in the peculiar function of hi offic . that offic consist in minc the hors - piec of blubber for the pot ; an oper which is conduct at a curiou wooden hors , plant endwis against the bulwark , and with a capaci tub beneath it , into which the minc piec drop , fast as the sheet from a rapt orat ' s desk . array in decent black ; occupi a conspicu pulpit ; intent on bibl leav ; what a candid for an archbishopr , what a lad for a pope were thi mincer ! * * bibl leav ! bibl leav ! thi is the invari cri from the mate to the mincer . It enjoin him to be care , and cut hi work into as thin slice as possibl , inasmuch as by so do the busi of boil out the oil is much acceler , and it quantiti consider increas , besid perhap improv it in qualiti . chapter 96 the tri - work . besid her hoist boat , an american whaler is outwardli distinguish by her tri - work . she present the curiou anomali of the most solid masonri join with oak and hemp in constitut the complet ship . It is as if from the open field a brick - kiln were transport to her plank . the tri - work are plant between the foremast and mainmast , the most roomi part of the deck . the timber beneath are of a peculiar strength , fit to sustain the weight of an almost solid mass of brick and mortar , some ten feet by eight squar , and five in height . the foundat doe not penetr the deck , but the masonri is firmli secur to the surfac by ponder knee of iron brace it on all side , and screw it down to the timber . On the flank it is case with wood , and at top complet cover by a larg , slope , batten hatchway . remov thi hatch we expos the great tri - pot , two in number , and each of sever barrel ' capac . when not in use , they are kept remark clean . sometim they are polish with soapston and sand , till they shine within like silver punch - bowl . dure the night - watch some cynic old sailor will crawl into them and coil themselv away there for a nap . while employ in polish them -- one man in each pot , side by side -- mani confidenti commun are carri on , over the iron lip . It is a place also for profound mathemat medit . It wa in the left hand tri - pot of the pequod , with the soapston dilig circl round me , that I wa first indirectli struck by the remark fact , that in geometri all bodi glide along the cycloid , my soapston for exampl , will descend from ani point in precis the same time . remov the fire - board from the front of the tri - work , the bare masonri of that side is expos , penetr by the two iron mouth of the furnac , directli underneath the pot . these mouth are fit with heavi door of iron . the intens heat of the fire is prevent from commun itself to the deck , by mean of a shallow reservoir extend under the entir inclos surfac of the work . By a tunnel insert at the rear , thi reservoir is kept replenish with water as fast as it evapor . there are no extern chimney ; they open direct from the rear wall . and here let us go back for a moment . It wa about nine o ' clock at night that the pequod ' s tri - work were first start on thi present voyag . It belong to stubb to overse the busi . `` all readi there ? off hatch , then , and start her . you cook , fire the work . '' thi wa an easi thing , for the carpent had been thrust hi shave into the furnac throughout the passag . here be it said that in a whale voyag the first fire in the tri - work ha to be fed for a time with wood . after that no wood is use , except as a mean of quick ignit to the stapl fuel . In a word , after be tri out , the crisp , shrivel blubber , now call scrap or fritter , still contain consider of it unctuou properti . these fritter feed the flame . like a plethor burn martyr , or a self - consum misanthrop , onc ignit , the whale suppli hi own fuel and burn by hi own bodi . would that he consum hi own smoke ! for hi smoke is horribl to inhal , and inhal it you must , and not onli that , but you must live in it for the time . It ha an unspeak , wild , hindoo odor about it , such as may lurk in the vicin of funer pyre . It smell like the left wing of the day of judgment ; it is an argument for the pit . By midnight the work were in full oper . We were clear from the carcas ; sail had been made ; the wind wa freshen ; the wild ocean dark wa intens . but that dark wa lick up by the fierc flame , which at interv fork forth from the sooti flue , and illumin everi lofti rope in the rig , as with the fame greek fire . the burn ship drove on , as if remorselessli commiss to some veng deed . So the pitch and sulphur - freight brig of the bold hydriot , canari , issu from their midnight harbor , with broad sheet of flame for sail , bore down upon the turkish frigat , and fold them in conflagr . the hatch , remov from the top of the work , now afford a wide hearth in front of them . stand on thi were the tartarean shape of the pagan harpoon , alway the whale - ship ' s stoker . with huge prong pole they pitch hiss mass of blubber into the scald pot , or stir up the fire beneath , till the snaki flame dart , curl , out of the door to catch them by the feet . the smoke roll away in sullen heap . To everi pitch of the ship there wa a pitch of the boil oil , which seem all eager to leap into their face . opposit the mouth of the work , on the further side of the wide wooden hearth , wa the windlass . thi serv for a sea - sofa . here loung the watch , when not otherwis employ , look into the red heat of the fire , till their eye felt scorch in their head . their tawni featur , now all begrim with smoke and sweat , their mat beard , and the contrast barbar brillianc of their teeth , all these were strang reveal in the caprici emblazon of the work . As they narrat to each other their unholi adventur , their tale of terror told in word of mirth ; as their uncivil laughter fork upward out of them , like the flame from the furnac ; as to and fro , in their front , the harpoon wildli gesticul with their huge prong fork and dipper ; as the wind howl on , and the sea leap , and the ship groan and dive , and yet steadfastli shot her red hell further and further into the black of the sea and the night , and scorn champ the white bone in her mouth , and vicious spat round her on all side ; then the rush pequod , freight with savag , and laden with fire , and burn a corps , and plung into that black of dark , seem the materi counterpart of her monomaniac command ' s soul . So seem it to me , as I stood at her helm , and for long hour silent guid the way of thi fire - ship on the sea . wrap , for that interv , in dark myself , I but the better saw the red , the mad , the ghastli of other . the continu sight of the fiend shape befor me , caper half in smoke and half in fire , these at last begat kindr vision in my soul , so soon as I began to yield to that unaccount drowsi which ever would come over me at a midnight helm . but that night , in particular , a strang ( and ever sinc inexplic ) thing occur to me . start from a brief stand sleep , I wa horribl consciou of someth fatal wrong . the jaw - bone tiller smote my side , which lean against it ; in my ear wa the low hum of sail , just begin to shake in the wind ; I thought my eye were open ; I wa half consciou of put my finger to the lid and mechan stretch them still further apart . but , spite of all thi , I could see no compass befor me to steer by ; though it seem but a minut sinc I had been watch the card , by the steadi binnacl lamp illumin it . noth seem befor me but a jet gloom , now and then made ghastli by flash of red . uppermost wa the impress , that whatev swift , rush thing I stood on wa not so much bound to ani haven ahead as rush from all haven astern . A stark , bewild feel , as of death , came over me . convuls my hand grasp the tiller , but with the crazi conceit that the tiller wa , somehow , in some enchant way , invert . My god ! what is the matter with me ? thought I . Lo ! in my brief sleep I had turn myself about , and wa front the ship ' s stern , with my back to her prow and the compass . In an instant I face back , just in time to prevent the vessel from fli up into the wind , and veri probabl capsiz her . how glad and how grate the relief from thi unnatur hallucin of the night , and the fatal conting of be brought by the lee ! look not too long in the face of the fire , O man ! never dream with thi hand on the helm ! turn not thi back to the compass ; accept the first hint of the hitch tiller ; believ not the artifici fire , when it red make all thing look ghastli . To - morrow , in the natur sun , the sky will be bright ; those who glare like devil in the fork flame , the morn will show in far other , at least gentler , relief ; the gloriou , golden , glad sun , the onli true lamp -- all other but liar ! nevertheless the sun hide not virginia ' s dismal swamp , nor rome ' s accurs campagna , nor wide sahara , nor all the million of mile of desert and of grief beneath the moon . the sun hide not the ocean , which is the dark side of thi earth , and which is two third of thi earth . So , therefor , that mortal man who hath more of joy than sorrow in him , that mortal man can not be true -- not true , or undevelop . with book the same . the truest of all men wa the man of sorrow , and the truest of all book is solomon ' s , and ecclesiast is the fine hammer steel of woe . `` all is vaniti . '' all . thi wil world hath not got hold of unchristian solomon ' s wisdom yet . but he who dodg hospit and jail , and walk fast cross graveyard , and would rather talk of opera than hell ; call cowper , young , pascal , rousseau , poor devil all of sick men ; and throughout a care - free lifetim swear by rabelai as pass wise , and therefor jolli ; -- not that man is fit to sit down on tomb - stone , and break the green damp mould with unfathom wondrou solomon . but even solomon , he say , `` the man that wandereth out of the way of understand shall remain `` ( I . E . , even while live ) `` in the congreg of the dead . '' give not thyself up , then , to fire , lest it invert thee , deaden thee ; as for the time it did me . there is a wisdom that is woe ; but there is a woe that is mad . and there is a catskil eagl in some soul that can alik dive down into the blackest gorg , and soar out of them again and becom invis in the sunni space . and even if he for ever fli within the gorg , that gorg is in the mountain ; so that even in hi lowest swoop the mountain eagl is still higher than other bird upon the plain , even though they soar . chapter 97 the lamp . had you descend from the pequod ' s tri - work to the pequod ' s forecastl , where the off duti watch were sleep , for one singl moment you would have almost thought you were stand in some illumin shrine of canon king and counsellor . there they lay in their triangular oaken vault , each marin a chisel mute ; a score of lamp flash upon hi hood eye . In merchantmen , oil for the sailor is more scarc than the milk of queen . To dress in the dark , and eat in the dark , and stumbl in dark to hi pallet , thi is hi usual lot . but the whaleman , as he seek the food of light , so he live in light . He make hi berth an aladdin ' s lamp , and lay him down in it ; so that in the pitchiest night the ship ' s black hull still hous an illumin . see with what entir freedom the whaleman take hi hand of lamp -- often but old bottl and vial , though -- to the copper cooler at the tri - work , and replenish them there , as mug of ale at a vat . He burn , too , the purest of oil , in it unmanufactur , and , therefor , unviti state ; a fluid unknown to solar , lunar , or astral contriv ashor . It is sweet as earli grass butter in april . He goe and hunt for hi oil , so as to be sure of it fresh and genuin , even as the travel on the prairi hunt up hi own supper of game . chapter 98 stow down and clear Up . alreadi ha it been relat how the great leviathan is afar off descri from the mast - head ; how he is chase over the wateri moor , and slaughter in the valley of the deep ; how he is then tow alongsid and behead ; and how ( on the principl which entitl the headsman of old to the garment in which the behead wa kill ) hi great pad surtout becom the properti of hi execution ; how , in due time , he is condemn to the pot , and , like shadrach , meshach , and abednego , hi spermaceti , oil , and bone pass unscath through the fire ; -- but now it remain to conclud the last chapter of thi part of the descript by rehears -- sing , if I may -- the romant proceed of decant off hi oil into the cask and strike them down into the hold , where onc again leviathan return to hi nativ profund , slide along beneath the surfac as befor ; but , ala ! never more to rise and blow . while still warm , the oil , like hot punch , is receiv into the six - barrel cask ; and while , perhap , the ship is pitch and roll thi way and that in the midnight sea , the enorm cask are slew round and head over , end for end , and sometim peril scoot across the slipperi deck , like so mani land slide , till at last man - handl and stay in their cours ; and all round the hoop , rap , rap , go as mani hammer as can play upon them , for now , EX officio , everi sailor is a cooper . At length , when the last pint is cask , and all is cool , then the great hatchway are unseal , the bowel of the ship are thrown open , and down go the cask to their final rest in the sea . thi done , the hatch are replac , and hermet close , like a closet wall up . In the sperm fisheri , thi is perhap one of the most remark incid in all the busi of whale . one day the plank stream with freshet of blood and oil ; on the sacr quarter - deck enorm mass of the whale ' s head are profan pile ; great rusti cask lie about , as in a breweri yard ; the smoke from the tri - work ha besoot all the bulwark ; the marin go about suffus with unctuous ; the entir ship seem great leviathan himself ; while on all hand the din is deafen . but a day or two after , you look about you , and prick your ear in thi self - same ship ; and were it not for the tell - tale boat and tri - work , you would all but swear you trod some silent merchant vessel , with a most scrupul neat command . the unmanufactur sperm oil possess a singularli cleans virtu . thi is the reason whi the deck never look so white as just after what they call an affair of oil . besid , from the ash of the burn scrap of the whale , a potent lye is readili made ; and whenev ani adhes from the back of the whale remain cling to the side , that lye quickli extermin it . hand go dilig along the bulwark , and with bucket of water and rag restor them to their full tidi . the soot is brush from the lower rig . all the numer implement which have been in use are likewis faith cleans and put away . the great hatch is scrub and place upon the tri - work , complet hide the pot ; everi cask is out of sight ; all tackl are coil in unseen nook ; and when by the combin and simultan industri of almost the entir ship ' s compani , the whole of thi conscienti duti is at last conclud , then the crew themselv proceed to their own ablut ; shift themselv from top to toe ; and final issu to the immacul deck , fresh and all aglow , as bridegroom new - leap from out the daintiest holland . now , with elat step , they pace the plank in two and three , and humor discours of parlor , sofa , carpet , and fine cambric ; propos to mat the deck ; think of have hang to the top ; object not to take tea by moonlight on the piazza of the forecastl . To hint to such musk marin of oil , and bone , and blubber , were littl short of audac . they know not the thing you distantli allud to . away , and bring us napkin ! but mark : aloft there , at the three mast head , stand three men intent on spi out more whale , which , if caught , infal will again soil the old oaken furnitur , and drop at least one small greas - spot somewher . ye ; and mani is the time , when , after the severest uninterrupt labor , which know no night ; continu straight through for nineti - six hour ; when from the boat , where they have swell their wrist with all day row on the line , -- they onli step to the deck to carri vast chain , and heav the heavi windlass , and cut and slash , yea , and in their veri sweat to be smoke and burn anew by the combin fire of the equatori sun and the equatori tri - work ; when , on the heel of all thi , they have final bestir themselv to cleans the ship , and make a spotless dairi room of it ; mani is the time the poor fellow , just button the neck of their clean frock , are startl by the cri of `` there she blow ! '' and away they fli to fight anoth whale , and go through the whole weari thing again . Oh ! my friend , but thi is man - kill ! yet thi is life . for hardli have we mortal by long toil extract from thi world ' s vast bulk it small but valuabl sperm ; and then , with weari patienc , cleans ourselv from it defil , and learn to live here in clean tabernacl of the soul ; hardli is thi done , when -- there she blow ! -- the ghost is spout up , and away we sail to fight some other world , and go through young life ' s old routin again . Oh ! the metempsychosi ! Oh ! pythagora , that in bright greec , two thousand year ago , did die , so good , so wise , so mild ; I sail with thee along the peruvian coast last voyag -- and , foolish as I am , taught thee , a green simpl boy , how to splice a rope ! chapter 99 the doubloon . ere now it ha been relat how ahab wa wont to pace hi quarter - deck , take regular turn at either limit , the binnacl and mainmast ; but in the multipl of other thing requir narrat it ha not been ad how that sometim in these walk , when most plung in hi mood , he wa wont to paus in turn at each spot , and stand there strang eye the particular object befor him . when he halt befor the binnacl , with hi glanc fasten on the point needl in the compass , that glanc shot like a javelin with the point intens of hi purpos ; and when resum hi walk he again paus befor the mainmast , then , as the same rivet glanc fasten upon the rivet gold coin there , he still wore the same aspect of nail firm , onli dash with a certain wild long , if not hope . but one morn , turn to pass the doubloon , he seem to be newli attract by the strang figur and inscript stamp on it , as though now for the first time begin to interpret for himself in some monomaniac way whatev signific might lurk in them . and some certain signific lurk in all thing , els all thing are littl worth , and the round world itself but an empti cipher , except to sell by the cartload , as they do hill about boston , to fill up some morass in the milki way . now thi doubloon wa of purest , virgin gold , rake somewher out of the heart of gorgeou hill , whenc , east and west , over golden sand , the head - water of mani a pactolu flow . and though now nail amidst all the rusti of iron bolt and the verdigri of copper spike , yet , untouch and immacul to ani foul , it still preserv it quito glow . nor , though place amongst a ruthless crew and everi hour pass by ruthless hand , and through the livelong night shroud with thick dark which might cover ani pilfer approach , nevertheless everi sunris found the doubloon where the sunset left it last . for it wa set apart and sanctifi to one awe - strike end ; and howev wanton in their sailor way , one and all , the marin rever it as the white whale ' s talisman . sometim they talk it over in the weari watch by night , wonder whose it wa to be at last , and whether he would ever live to spend it . now those nobl golden coin of south america are as medal of the sun and tropic token - piec . here palm , alpaca , and volcano ; sun ' s disk and star ; eclipt , horn - of - plenti , and rich banner wave , are in luxuri profus stamp ; so that the preciou gold seem almost to deriv an ad precious and enhanc glori , by pass through those fanci mint , so spanishli poetic . It so chanc that the doubloon of the pequod wa a most wealthi exampl of these thing . On it round border it bore the letter , republica del ecuador : quito . So thi bright coin came from a countri plant in the middl of the world , and beneath the great equat , and name after it ; and it had been cast midway up the and , in the unwan clime that know no autumn . zone by those letter you saw the like of three and ' summit ; from one a flame ; a tower on anoth ; on the third a crow cock ; while arch over all wa a segment of the partit zodiac , the sign all mark with their usual cabalist , and the keyston sun enter the equinocti point at libra . befor thi equatori coin , ahab , not unobserv by other , wa now paus . `` there ' s someth ever egotist in mountain - top and tower , and all other grand and lofti thing ; look here , -- three peak as proud as lucif . the firm tower , that is ahab ; the volcano , that is ahab ; the courag , the undaunt , and victori fowl , that , too , is ahab ; all are ahab ; and thi round gold is but the imag of the rounder globe , which , like a magician ' s glass , to each and everi man in turn but mirror back hi own mysteri self . great pain , small gain for those who ask the world to solv them ; it can not solv itself . methink now thi coin sun wear a ruddi face ; but see ! aye , he enter the sign of storm , the equinox ! and but six month befor he wheel out of a former equinox at ari ! from storm to storm ! So be it , then . born in throe , ' t is fit that man should live in pain and die in pang ! So be it , then ! here ' s stout stuff for woe to work on . So be it , then . '' `` No fairi finger can have press the gold , but devil ' s claw must have left their mould there sinc yesterday , '' murmur starbuck to himself , lean against the bulwark . `` the old man seem to read belshazzar ' s aw write . I have never mark the coin inspectingli . He goe below ; let me read . A dark valley between three mighti , heaven - abid peak , that almost seem the triniti , in some faint earthli symbol . So in thi vale of death , god gird us round ; and over all our gloom , the sun of righteous still shine a beacon and a hope . If we bend down our eye , the dark vale show her mouldi soil ; but if we lift them , the bright sun meet our glanc half way , to cheer . yet , oh , the great sun is no fixtur ; and if , at midnight , we would fain snatch some sweet solac from him , we gaze for him in vain ! thi coin speak wise , mildli , truli , but still sadli to me . I will quit it , lest truth shake me fals . '' `` there now ' s the old mogul , '' soliloqu stubb by the tri - work , `` he ' s been twig it ; and there goe starbuck from the same , and both with face which I should say might be somewher within nine fathom long . and all from look at a piec of gold , which did I have it now on negro hill or in corlaer ' s hook , I ' d not look at it veri long ere spend it . humph ! in my poor , insignific opinion , I regard thi as queer . I have seen doubloon befor now in my voyag ; your doubloon of old spain , your doubloon of peru , your doubloon of chili , your doubloon of bolivia , your doubloon of popayan ; with plenti of gold moidor and pistol , and joe , and half joe , and quarter joe . what then should there be in thi doubloon of the equat that is so kill wonder ? By golconda ! let me read it onc . halloa ! here ' s sign and wonder truli ! that , now , is what old bowditch in hi epitom call the zodiac , and what my almanac below call ditto . I ' ll get the almanac and as I have heard devil can be rais with dabol ' s arithmet , I ' ll tri my hand at rais a mean out of these queer curvicu here with the massachusett calendar . here ' s the book . let ' s see now . sign and wonder ; and the sun , he ' s alway among ' em . hem , hem , hem ; here they are -- here they go -- all aliv : -- ari , or the ram ; tauru , or the bull and jimimi ! here ' s gemini himself , or the twin . well ; the sun he wheel among ' em . aye , here on the coin he ' s just cross the threshold between two of twelv sit - room all in a ring . book ! you lie there ; the fact is , you book must know your place . you ' ll do to give us the bare word and fact , but we come in to suppli the thought . that ' s my small experi , so far as the massachusett calendar , and bowditch ' s navig , and dabol ' s arithmet go . sign and wonder , eh ? piti if there is noth wonder in sign , and signific in wonder ! there ' s a clue somewher ; wait a bit ; hist -- hark ! By jove , I have it ! look you , doubloon , your zodiac here is the life of man in one round chapter ; and now I ' ll read it off , straight out of the book . come , almanack ! To begin : there ' s ari , or the ram -- lecher dog , he beget us ; then , tauru , or the bull -- he bump us the first thing ; then gemini , or the twin -- that is , virtu and vice ; we tri to reach virtu , when lo ! come cancer the crab , and drag us back ; and here , go from virtu , leo , a roar lion , lie in the path -- he give a few fierc bite and surli dab with hi paw ; we escap , and hail virgo , the virgin ! that ' s our first love ; we marri and think to be happi for aye , when pop come libra , or the scale -- happi weigh and found want ; and while we are veri sad about that , lord ! how we suddenli jump , as scorpio , or the scorpion , sting us in the rear ; we are cure the wound , when whang come the arrow all round ; sagittariu , or the archer , is amus himself . As we pluck out the shaft , stand asid ! here ' s the batter - ram , capricornu , or the goat ; full tilt , he come rush , and headlong we are toss ; when aquariu , or the water - bearer , pour out hi whole delug and drown us ; and to wind up with pisc , or the fish , we sleep . there ' s a sermon now , writ in high heaven , and the sun goe through it everi year , and yet come out of it all aliv and hearti . jollili he , aloft there , wheel through toil and troubl ; and so , alow here , doe jolli stubb . Oh , jolli ' s the word for aye ! adieu , doubloon ! but stop ; here come littl king - post ; dodg round the tri - work , now , and let ' s hear what he ' ll have to say . there ; he ' s befor it ; he ' ll out with someth present . So , so ; he ' s begin . '' `` I see noth here , but a round thing made of gold , and whoever rais a certain whale , thi round thing belong to him . So , what ' s all thi stare been about ? It is worth sixteen dollar , that ' s true ; and at two cent the cigar , that ' s nine hundr and sixti cigar . I won ' t smoke dirti pipe like stubb , but I like cigar , and here ' s nine hundr and sixti of them ; so here goe flask aloft to spi ' em out . '' `` shall I call that wise or foolish , now ; if it be realli wise it ha a foolish look to it ; yet , if it be realli foolish , then ha it a sort of wiseish look to it . but , avast ; here come our old manxman -- the old hears - driver , he must have been , that is , befor he took to the sea . He luff up befor the doubloon ; halloa , and goe round on the other side of the mast ; whi , there ' s a hors - shoe nail on that side ; and now he ' s back again ; what doe that mean ? hark ! he ' s mutter -- voic like an old worn - out coffe - mill . prick ear , and listen ! '' `` If the white whale be rais , it must be in a month and a day , when the sun stand in some one of these sign . I ' ve studi sign , and know their mark ; they were taught me two score year ago , by the old witch in copenhagen . now , in what sign will the sun then be ? the hors - shoe sign ; for there it is , right opposit the gold . and what ' s the hors - shoe sign ? the lion is the hors - shoe sign -- the roar and devour lion . ship , old ship ! my old head shake to think of thee . '' `` there ' s anoth render now ; but still one text . all sort of men in one kind of world , you see . dodg again ! here come queequeg -- all tattoo -- look like the sign of the zodiac himself . what say the cannib ? As I live he ' s compar note ; look at hi thigh bone ; think the sun is in the thigh , or in the calf , or in the bowel , I suppos , as the old women talk surgeon ' s astronomi in the back countri . and by jove , he ' s found someth there in the vicin of hi thigh -- I guess it ' s sagittariu , or the archer . No : he don ' t know what to make of the doubloon ; he take it for an old button off some king ' s trowser . but , asid again ! here come that ghost - devil , fedallah ; tail coil out of sight as usual , oakum in the toe of hi pump as usual . what doe he say , with that look of hi ? Ah , onli make a sign to the sign and bow himself ; there is a sun on the coin -- fire worshipp , depend upon it . Ho ! more and more . thi way come pip -- poor boy ! would he had die , or I ; he ' s half horribl to me . He too ha been watch all of these interpret -- myself includ -- and look now , he come to read , with that unearthli idiot face . stand away again and hear him . hark ! '' `` I look , you look , he look ; we look , ye look , they look . '' `` upon my soul , he ' s been studi murray ' s grammar ! improv hi mind , poor fellow ! but what ' s that he say now -- hist ! '' `` I look , you look , he look ; we look , ye look , they look . '' `` whi , he ' s get it by heart -- hist ! again . '' `` I look , you look , he look ; we look , ye look , they look . '' `` well , that ' s funni . '' `` and I , you , and he ; and we , ye , and they , are all bat ; and I ' m a crow , especi when I stand a ' top of thi pine tree here . caw ! caw ! caw ! caw ! caw ! caw ! ain ' t I a crow ? and where ' s the scare - crow ? there he stand ; two bone stuck into a pair of old trowser , and two more poke into the sleev of an old jacket . '' `` wonder if he mean me ? -- complimentari ! -- poor lad ! -- I could go hang myself . ani way , for the present , I ' ll quit pip ' s vicin . I can stand the rest , for they have plain wit ; but he ' s too crazi - witti for my saniti . So , so , I leav him mutter . '' `` here ' s the ship ' s navel , thi doubloon here , and they are all on fire to unscrew it . but , unscrew your navel , and what ' s the consequ ? then again , if it stay here , that is ugli , too , for when aught ' s nail to the mast it ' s a sign that thing grow desper . Ha , ha ! old ahab ! the white whale ; he ' ll nail ye ! thi is a pine tree . My father , in old tolland counti , cut down a pine tree onc , and found a silver ring grown over in it ; some old darkey ' s wed ring . how did it get there ? and so they ' ll say in the resurrect , when they come to fish up thi old mast , and find a doubloon lodg in it , with bed oyster for the shaggi bark . Oh , the gold ! the preciou , preciou , gold ! the green miser ' ll hoard ye soon ! hish ! hish ! god goe ' mong the world blackberri . cook ! ho , cook ! and cook us ! jenni ! hey , hey , hey , hey , hey , jenni , jenni ! and get your hoe - cake done ! '' chapter 100 leg and arm . the pequod , of nantucket , meet the samuel enderbi , of london . `` ship , ahoy ! hast seen the white whale ? '' So cri ahab , onc more hail a ship show english colour , bear down under the stern . trumpet to mouth , the old man wa stand in hi hoist quarter - boat , hi ivori leg plainli reveal to the stranger captain , who wa carelessli reclin in hi own boat ' s bow . He wa a darkli - tan , burli , good - natur , fine - look man , of sixti or thereabout , dress in a spaciou roundabout , that hung round him in festoon of blue pilot - cloth ; and one empti arm of thi jacket stream behind him like the broider arm of a hussar ' s surcoat . `` hast seen the white whale ! '' `` see you thi ? '' and withdraw it from the fold that had hidden it , he held up a white arm of sperm whale bone , termin in a wooden head like a mallet . `` man my boat ! '' cri ahab , impetu , and toss about the oar near him -- '' stand by to lower ! '' In less than a minut , without quit hi littl craft , he and hi crew were drop to the water , and were soon alongsid of the stranger . but here a curiou difficulti present itself . In the excit of the moment , ahab had forgotten that sinc the loss of hi leg he had never onc step on board of ani vessel at sea but hi own , and then it wa alway by an ingeni and veri handi mechan contriv peculiar to the pequod , and a thing not to be rig and ship in ani other vessel at a moment ' s warn . now , it is no veri easi matter for anybodi -- except those who are almost hourli use to it , like whalemen -- to clamber up a ship ' s side from a boat on the open sea ; for the great swell now lift the boat high up toward the bulwark , and then instantan drop it half way down to the kelson . So , depriv of one leg , and the strang ship of cours be altogeth unsuppli with the kindli invent , ahab now found himself abjectli reduc to a clumsi landsman again ; hopelessli eye the uncertain chang height he could hardli hope to attain . It ha befor been hint , perhap , that everi littl untoward circumst that befel him , and which indirectli sprang from hi luckless mishap , almost invari irrit or exasper ahab . and in the present instanc , all thi wa heighten by the sight of the two offic of the strang ship , lean over the side , by the perpendicular ladder of nail cleet there , and swing toward him a pair of tast - ornament man - rope ; for at first they did not seem to bethink them that a one - leg man must be too much of a crippl to use their sea bannist . but thi awkward onli last a minut , becaus the strang captain , observ at a glanc how affair stood , cri out , `` I see , I see ! -- avast heav there ! jump , boy , and swing over the cut - tackl . '' As good luck would have it , they had had a whale alongsid a day or two previou , and the great tackl were still aloft , and the massiv curv blubber - hook , now clean and dri , wa still attach to the end . thi wa quickli lower to ahab , who at onc comprehend it all , slid hi solitari thigh into the curv of the hook ( it wa like sit in the fluke of an anchor , or the crotch of an appl tree ) , and then give the word , held himself fast , and at the same time also help to hoist hi own weight , by pull hand - over - hand upon one of the run part of the tackl . soon he wa care swung insid the high bulwark , and gentli land upon the capstan head . with hi ivori arm frankli thrust forth in welcom , the other captain advanc , and ahab , put out hi ivori leg , and cross the ivori arm ( like two sword - fish blade ) cri out in hi walru way , `` aye , aye , hearti ! let us shake bone togeth ! -- an arm and a leg ! -- an arm that never can shrink , d ' ye see ; and a leg that never can run . where did ' st thou see the white whale ? -- how long ago ? '' `` the white whale , '' said the englishman , point hi ivori arm toward the east , and take a rueful sight along it , as if it had been a telescop ; `` there I saw him , on the line , last season . '' `` and he took that arm off , did he ? '' ask ahab , now slide down from the capstan , and rest on the englishman ' s shoulder , as he did so . `` aye , he wa the caus of it , at least ; and that leg , too ? '' `` spin me the yarn , '' said ahab ; `` how wa it ? '' `` It wa the first time in my life that I ever cruis on the line , '' began the englishman . `` I wa ignor of the white whale at that time . well , one day we lower for a pod of four or five whale , and my boat fasten to one of them ; a regular circu hors he wa , too , that went mill and mill round so , that my boat ' s crew could onli trim dish , by sit all their stern on the outer gunwal . present up breach from the bottom of the sea a bounc great whale , with a milki - white head and hump , all crow ' feet and wrinkl . '' `` It wa he , it wa he ! '' cri ahab , suddenli let out hi suspend breath . `` and harpoon stick in near hi starboard fin . '' `` aye , aye -- they were mine -- MY iron , '' cri ahab , exultingli -- '' but on ! '' `` give me a chanc , then , '' said the englishman , good - humoredli . `` well , thi old great - grandfath , with the white head and hump , run all afoam into the pod , and goe to snap furious at my fast - line ! `` aye , I see ! -- want to part it ; free the fast - fish -- an old trick -- I know him . '' `` how it wa exactli , '' continu the one - arm command , `` I do not know ; but in bite the line , it got foul of hi teeth , caught there somehow ; but we didn ' t know it then ; so that when we afterward pull on the line , bounc we came plump on to hi hump ! instead of the other whale ' s ; that went off to windward , all fluke . see how matter stood , and what a nobl great whale it wa -- the noblest and biggest I ever saw , sir , in my life -- I resolv to captur him , spite of the boil rage he seem to be in . and think the hap - hazard line would get loos , or the tooth it wa tangl to might draw ( for I have a devil of a boat ' s crew for a pull on a whale - line ) ; see all thi , I say , I jump into my first mate ' s boat -- Mr . mounttop ' s here ( by the way , captain -- mounttop ; mounttop -- the captain ) ; -- as I wa say , I jump into mounttop ' s boat , which , d ' ye see , wa gunwal and gunwal with mine , then ; and snatch the first harpoon , let thi old great - grandfath have it . but , lord , look you , sir -- heart and soul aliv , man -- the next instant , in a jiff , I wa blind as a bat -- both eye out -- all befog and bedeaden with black foam -- the whale ' s tail loom straight up out of it , perpendicular in the air , like a marbl steepl . No use stern all , then ; but as I wa grope at midday , with a blind sun , all crown - jewel ; as I wa grope , I say , after the second iron , to toss it overboard -- down come the tail like a lima tower , cut my boat in two , leav each half in splinter ; and , fluke first , the white hump back through the wreck , as though it wa all chip . We all struck out . To escap hi terribl flail , I seiz hold of my harpoon - pole stick in him , and for a moment clung to that like a suck fish . but a comb sea dash me off , and at the same instant , the fish , take one good dart forward , went down like a flash ; and the barb of that curs second iron tow along near me caught me here `` ( clap hi hand just below hi shoulder ) ; `` ye , caught me just here , I say , and bore me down to hell ' s flame , I wa think ; when , when , all of a sudden , thank the good god , the barb ript it way along the flesh -- clear along the whole length of my arm -- came out nigh my wrist , and up I float ; -- and that gentleman there will tell you the rest ( by the way , captain -- Dr . bunger , ship ' s surgeon : bunger , my lad , -- the captain ) . now , bunger boy , spin your part of the yarn . '' the profession gentleman thu familiarli point out , had been all the time stand near them , with noth specif visibl , to denot hi gentlemanli rank on board . hi face wa an exceedingli round but sober one ; he wa dress in a fade blue woollen frock or shirt , and patch trowser ; and had thu far been divid hi attent between a marlingspik he held in one hand , and a pill - box held in the other , occasion cast a critic glanc at the ivori limb of the two crippl captain . but , at hi superior ' s introduct of him to ahab , he polit bow , and straightway went on to do hi captain ' s bid . `` It wa a shock bad wound , '' began the whale - surgeon ; `` and , take my advic , captain boomer here , stood our old sammi -- '' `` samuel enderbi is the name of my ship , '' interrupt the one - arm captain , address ahab ; `` go on , boy . '' `` stood our old sammi off to the northward , to get out of the blaze hot weather there on the line . but it wa no use -- I did all I could ; sat up with him night ; wa veri sever with him in the matter of diet -- '' `` Oh , veri sever ! '' chime in the patient himself ; then suddenli alter hi voic , `` drink hot rum toddi with me everi night , till he couldn ' t see to put on the bandag ; and send me to bed , half sea over , about three o ' clock in the morn . Oh , ye star ! he sat up with me inde , and wa veri sever in my diet . Oh ! a great watcher , and veri dietet sever , is Dr . bunger . ( bunger , you dog , laugh out ! whi don ' t ye ? you know you ' re a preciou jolli rascal . ) but , heav ahead , boy , I ' d rather be kill by you than kept aliv by ani other man . '' `` My captain , you must have ere thi perceiv , respect sir `` -- said the imperturb godli - look bunger , slightli bow to ahab -- '' is apt to be faceti at time ; he spin us mani clever thing of that sort . but I may as well say -- en passant , as the french remark -- that I myself -- that is to say , jack bunger , late of the reverend clergi -- am a strict total abstin man ; I never drink -- '' `` water ! '' cri the captain ; `` he never drink it ; it ' s a sort of fit to him ; fresh water throw him into the hydrophobia ; but go on -- go on with the arm stori . '' `` ye , I may as well , '' said the surgeon , coolli . `` I wa about observ , sir , befor captain boomer ' s faceti interrupt , that spite of my best and severest endeavor , the wound kept get wors and wors ; the truth wa , sir , it wa as ugli gape wound as surgeon ever saw ; more than two feet and sever inch long . I measur it with the lead line . In short , it grew black ; I knew what wa threaten , and off it came . but I had no hand in ship that ivori arm there ; that thing is against all rule `` -- point at it with the marlingspik -- '' that is the captain ' s work , not mine ; he order the carpent to make it ; he had that club - hammer there put to the end , to knock some one ' s brain out with , I suppos , as he tri mine onc . He fli into diabol passion sometim . Do ye see thi dent , sir `` -- remov hi hat , and brush asid hi hair , and expos a bowl - like caviti in hi skull , but which bore not the slightest scarri trace , or ani token of ever have been a wound -- '' well , the captain there will tell you how that came here ; he know . '' `` No , I don ' t , '' said the captain , `` but hi mother did ; he wa born with it . Oh , you solemn rogu , you -- you bunger ! wa there ever such anoth bunger in the wateri world ? bunger , when you die , you ought to die in pickl , you dog ; you should be preserv to futur age , you rascal . '' `` what becam of the white whale ? '' now cri ahab , who thu far had been impati listen to thi by - play between the two englishmen . `` Oh ! '' cri the one - arm captain , `` oh , ye ! well ; after he sound , we didn ' t see him again for some time ; in fact , as I befor hint , I didn ' t then know what whale it wa that had serv me such a trick , till some time afterward , when come back to the line , we heard about mobi dick -- as some call him -- and then I knew it wa he . '' `` did ' st thou cross hi wake again ? '' `` twice . '' `` but could not fasten ? '' `` didn ' t want to tri to : ain ' t one limb enough ? what should I do without thi other arm ? and I ' m think mobi dick doesn ' t bite so much as he swallow . '' `` well , then , '' interrupt bunger , `` give him your left arm for bait to get the right . Do you know , gentlemen `` -- veri grave and mathemat bow to each captain in success -- '' Do you know , gentlemen , that the digest organ of the whale are so inscrut construct by divin provid , that it is quit imposs for him to complet digest even a man ' s arm ? and he know it too . So that what you take for the white whale ' s malic is onli hi awkward . for he never mean to swallow a singl limb ; he onli think to terrifi by feint . but sometim he is like the old juggl fellow , formerli a patient of mine in ceylon , that make believ swallow jack - knive , onc upon a time let one drop into him in good earnest , and there it stay for a twelvemonth or more ; when I gave him an emet , and he heav it up in small tack , d ' ye see . No possibl way for him to digest that jack - knife , and fulli incorpor it into hi gener bodili system . ye , captain boomer , if you are quick enough about it , and have a mind to pawn one arm for the sake of the privileg of give decent burial to the other , whi in that case the arm is your ; onli let the whale have anoth chanc at you shortli , that ' s all . '' `` No , thank ye , bunger , '' said the english captain , `` he ' s welcom to the arm he ha , sinc I can ' t help it , and didn ' t know him then ; but not to anoth one . No more white whale for me ; I ' ve lower for him onc , and that ha satisfi me . there would be great glori in kill him , I know that ; and there is a ship - load of preciou sperm in him , but , hark ye , he ' s best let alon ; don ' t you think so , captain ? '' -- glanc at the ivori leg . `` He is . but he will still be hunt , for all that . what is best let alon , that accurs thing is not alway what least allur . He ' s all a magnet ! how long sinc thou saw ' st him last ? which way head ? '' `` bless my soul , and curs the foul fiend ' s , '' cri bunger , stoopingli walk round ahab , and like a dog , strang snuf ; `` thi man ' s blood -- bring the thermomet ! -- it ' s at the boil point ! -- hi puls make these plank beat ! -- sir ! '' -- take a lancet from hi pocket , and draw near to ahab ' s arm . `` avast ! '' roar ahab , dash him against the bulwark -- '' man the boat ! which way head ? '' `` good god ! '' cri the english captain , to whom the question wa put . `` what ' s the matter ? He wa head east , I think . -- Is your captain crazi ? '' whisper fedallah . but fedallah , put a finger on hi lip , slid over the bulwark to take the boat ' s steer oar , and ahab , swing the cut - tackl toward him , command the ship ' s sailor to stand by to lower . In a moment he wa stand in the boat ' s stern , and the manilla men were spring to their oar . In vain the english captain hail him . with back to the stranger ship , and face set like a flint to hi own , ahab stood upright till alongsid of the pequod . chapter 101 the decant . ere the english ship fade from sight , be it set down here , that she hail from london , and wa name after the late samuel enderbi , merchant of that citi , the origin of the famou whale hous of enderbi & son ; a hous which in my poor whaleman ' s opinion , come not far behind the unit royal hous of the tudor and bourbon , in point of real histor interest . how long , prior to the year of our lord 1775 , thi great whale hous wa in exist , my numer fish - document do not make plain ; but in that year ( 1775 ) it fit out the first english ship that ever regularli hunt the sperm whale ; though for some score of year previou ( ever sinc 1726 ) our valiant coffin and macey of nantucket and the vineyard had in larg fleet pursu that leviathan , but onli in the north and south atlant : not elsewher . Be it distinctli record here , that the nantucket were the first among mankind to harpoon with civil steel the great sperm whale ; and that for half a centuri they were the onli peopl of the whole globe who so harpoon him . In 1778 , a fine ship , the amelia , fit out for the express purpos , and at the sole charg of the vigor enderbi , boldli round cape horn , and wa the first among the nation to lower a whale - boat of ani sort in the great south sea . the voyag wa a skil and lucki one ; and return to her berth with her hold full of the preciou sperm , the amelia ' s exampl wa soon follow by other ship , english and american , and thu the vast sperm whale ground of the pacif were thrown open . but not content with thi good deed , the indefatig hous again bestir itself : samuel and all hi son -- how mani , their mother onli know -- and under their immedi auspic , and partli , I think , at their expens , the british govern wa induc to send the sloop - of - war rattler on a whale voyag of discoveri into the south sea . command by a naval post - captain , the rattler made a rattl voyag of it , and did some servic ; how much doe not appear . but thi is not all . In 1819 , the same hous fit out a discoveri whale ship of their own , to go on a tast cruis to the remot water of japan . that ship -- well call the `` syren `` -- made a nobl experiment cruis ; and it wa thu that the great japanes whale ground first becam gener known . the syren in thi famou voyag wa command by a captain coffin , a nantucket . all honour to the enderbi , therefor , whose hous , I think , exist to the present day ; though doubtless the origin samuel must long ago have slip hi cabl for the great south sea of the other world . the ship name after him wa worthi of the honour , be a veri fast sailer and a nobl craft everi way . I board her onc at midnight somewher off the patagonian coast , and drank good flip down in the forecastl . It wa a fine gam we had , and they were all trump -- everi soul on board . A short life to them , and a jolli death . and that fine gam I had -- long , veri long after old ahab touch her plank with hi ivori heel -- it mind me of the nobl , solid , saxon hospit of that ship ; and may my parson forget me , and the devil rememb me , if I ever lose sight of it . flip ? did I say we had flip ? ye , and we flip it at the rate of ten gallon the hour ; and when the squall came ( for it ' s squalli off there by patagonia ) , and all hand -- visitor and all -- were call to reef topsail , we were so top - heavi that we had to swing each other aloft in bowlin ; and we ignorantli furl the skirt of our jacket into the sail , so that we hung there , reef fast in the howl gale , a warn exampl to all drunken tar . howev , the mast did not go overboard ; and by and by we scrambl down , so sober , that we had to pass the flip again , though the savag salt spray burst down the forecastl scuttl , rather too much dilut and pickl it to my tast . the beef wa fine -- tough , but with bodi in it . they said it wa bull - beef ; other , that it wa dromedari beef ; but I do not know , for certain , how that wa . they had dumpl too ; small , but substanti , symmetr globular , and indestruct dumpl . I fanci that you could feel them , and roll them about in you after they were swallow . If you stoop over too far forward , you risk their pitch out of you like billiard - ball . the bread -- but that couldn ' t be help ; besid , it wa an anti - scorbut ; in short , the bread contain the onli fresh fare they had . but the forecastl wa not veri light , and it wa veri easi to step over into a dark corner when you ate it . but all in all , take her from truck to helm , consid the dimens of the cook ' s boiler , includ hi own live parchment boiler ; fore and aft , I say , the samuel enderbi wa a jolli ship ; of good fare and plenti ; fine flip and strong ; crack fellow all , and capit from boot heel to hat - band . but whi wa it , think ye , that the samuel enderbi , and some other english whaler I know of -- not all though -- were such famou , hospit ship ; that pass round the beef , and the bread , and the can , and the joke ; and were not soon weari of eat , and drink , and laugh ? I will tell you . the abound good cheer of these english whaler is matter for histor research . nor have I been at all spare of histor whale research , when it ha seem need . the english were preced in the whale fisheri by the holland , zealand , and dane ; from whom they deriv mani term still extant in the fisheri ; and what is yet more , their fat old fashion , touch plenti to eat and drink . for , as a gener thing , the english merchant - ship scrimp her crew ; but not so the english whaler . henc , in the english , thi thing of whale good cheer is not normal and natur , but incident and particular ; and , therefor , must have some special origin , which is here point out , and will be still further elucid . dure my research in the leviathan histori , I stumbl upon an ancient dutch volum , which , by the musti whale smell of it , I knew must be about whaler . the titl wa , `` dan coopman , '' wherefor I conclud that thi must be the invalu memoir of some amsterdam cooper in the fisheri , as everi whale ship must carri it cooper . I wa reinforc in thi opinion by see that it wa the product of one `` fitz swackhamm . '' but my friend Dr . snodhead , a veri learn man , professor of low dutch and high german in the colleg of santa clau and St . pott ' s , to whom I hand the work for translat , give him a box of sperm candl for hi troubl -- thi same Dr . snodhead , so soon as he spi the book , assur me that `` dan coopman `` did not mean `` the cooper , '' but `` the merchant . '' In short , thi ancient and learn low dutch book treat of the commerc of holland ; and , among other subject , contain a veri interest account of it whale fisheri . and in thi chapter it wa , head , `` smeer , '' or `` fat , '' that I found a long detail list of the outfit for the larder and cellar of 180 sail of dutch whalemen ; from which list , as translat by Dr . snodhead , I transcrib the follow : 400 , 000 lb . of beef . 60 , 000 lb . friesland pork . 150 , 000 lb . of stock fish . 550 , 000 lb . of biscuit . 72 , 000 lb . of soft bread . 2 , 800 firkin of butter . 20 , 000 lb . texel & leyden chees . 144 , 000 lb . chees ( probabl an inferior articl ) . 550 anker of geneva . 10 , 800 barrel of beer . most statist tabl are parchingli dri in the read ; not so in the present case , howev , where the reader is flood with whole pipe , barrel , quart , and gill of good gin and good cheer . At the time , I devot three day to the studiou digest of all thi beer , beef , and bread , dure which mani profound thought were incident suggest to me , capabl of a transcendent and platon applic ; and , furthermor , I compil supplementari tabl of my own , touch the probabl quantiti of stock - fish , etc . , consum by everi low dutch harpoon in that ancient greenland and spitzbergen whale fisheri . In the first place , the amount of butter , and texel and leyden chees consum , seem amaz . I imput it , though , to their natur unctuou natur , be render still more unctuou by the natur of their vocat , and especi by their pursu their game in those frigid polar sea , on the veri coast of that esquimaux countri where the convivi nativ pledg each other in bumper of train oil . the quantiti of beer , too , is veri larg , 10 , 800 barrel . now , as those polar fisheri could onli be prosecut in the short summer of that climat , so that the whole cruis of one of these dutch whalemen , includ the short voyag to and from the spitzbergen sea , did not much exceed three month , say , and reckon 30 men to each of their fleet of 180 sail , we have 5 , 400 low dutch seamen in all ; therefor , I say , we have precis two barrel of beer per man , for a twelv week ' allow , exclus of hi fair proport of that 550 anker of gin . now , whether these gin and beer harpoon , so fuddl as one might fanci them to have been , were the right sort of men to stand up in a boat ' s head , and take good aim at fli whale ; thi would seem somewhat improb . yet they did aim at them , and hit them too . but thi wa veri far north , be it rememb , where beer agre well with the constitut ; upon the equat , in our southern fisheri , beer would be apt to make the harpoon sleepi at the mast - head and boozi in hi boat ; and grievou loss might ensu to nantucket and new bedford . but no more ; enough ha been said to show that the old dutch whaler of two or three centuri ago were high liver ; and that the english whaler have not neglect so excel an exampl . for , say they , when cruis in an empti ship , if you can get noth better out of the world , get a good dinner out of it , at least . and thi empti the decant . chapter 102 A bower in the arsacid . hitherto , in descript treat of the sperm whale , I have chiefli dwelt upon the marvel of hi outer aspect ; or separ and in detail upon some few interior structur featur . but to a larg and thorough sweep comprehens of him , it behoov me now to unbutton him still further , and untag the point of hi hose , unbuckl hi garter , and cast loos the hook and the eye of the joint of hi innermost bone , set him befor you in hi ultimatum ; that is to say , in hi uncondit skeleton . but how now , ishmael ? how is it , that you , a mere oarsman in the fisheri , pretend to know aught about the subterranean part of the whale ? did erudit stubb , mount upon your capstan , deliv lectur on the anatomi of the cetacea ; and by help of the windlass , hold up a specimen rib for exhibit ? explain thyself , ishmael . can you land a full - grown whale on your deck for examin , as a cook dish a roast - pig ? sure not . A verit wit have you hitherto been , ishmael ; but have a care how you seiz the privileg of jonah alon ; the privileg of discours upon the joist and beam ; the rafter , ridg - pole , sleeper , and under - pin , make up the frame - work of leviathan ; and belik of the tallow - vat , dairi - room , butteri , and cheeseri in hi bowel . I confess , that sinc jonah , few whalemen have penetr veri far beneath the skin of the adult whale ; nevertheless , I have been bless with an opportun to dissect him in miniatur . In a ship I belong to , a small cub sperm whale wa onc bodili hoist to the deck for hi poke or bag , to make sheath for the barb of the harpoon , and for the head of the lanc . think you I let that chanc go , without use my boat - hatchet and jack - knife , and break the seal and read all the content of that young cub ? and as for my exact knowledg of the bone of the leviathan in their gigant , full grown develop , for that rare knowledg I am indebt to my late royal friend tranquo , king of tranqu , one of the arsacid . for be at tranqu , year ago , when attach to the trade - ship dey of algier , I wa invit to spend part of the arsacidean holiday with the lord of tranqu , at hi retir palm villa at pupella ; a sea - side glen not veri far distant from what our sailor call bamboo - town , hi capit . among mani other fine qualiti , my royal friend tranquo , be gift with a devout love for all matter of barbar vertu , had brought togeth in pupella whatev rare thing the more ingeni of hi peopl could invent ; chiefli carv wood of wonder devic , chisel shell , inlaid spear , costli paddl , aromat cano ; and all these distribut among whatev natur wonder , the wonder - freight , tribut - render wave had cast upon hi shore . chief among these latter wa a great sperm whale , which , after an unusu long rage gale , had been found dead and strand , with hi head against a cocoa - nut tree , whose plumag - like , tuft droop seem hi verdant jet . when the vast bodi had at last been strip of it fathom - deep enfold , and the bone becom dust dri in the sun , then the skeleton wa care transport up the pupella glen , where a grand templ of lordli palm now shelter it . the rib were hung with trophi ; the vertebra were carv with arsacidean annal , in strang hieroglyph ; in the skull , the priest kept up an unextinguish aromat flame , so that the mystic head again sent forth it vapouri spout ; while , suspend from a bough , the terrif lower jaw vibrat over all the devote , like the hair - hung sword that so affright damocl . It wa a wondrou sight . the wood wa green as moss of the ici glen ; the tree stood high and haughti , feel their live sap ; the industri earth beneath wa as a weaver ' s loom , with a gorgeou carpet on it , whereof the ground - vine tendril form the warp and woof , and the live flower the figur . all the tree , with all their laden branch ; all the shrub , and fern , and grass ; the messag - carri air ; all these unceasingli were activ . through the lace of the leav , the great sun seem a fli shuttl weav the unweari verdur . Oh , busi weaver ! unseen weaver ! -- paus ! -- one word ! -- whither flow the fabric ? what palac may it deck ? wherefor all these ceaseless toil ? speak , weaver ! -- stay thi hand ! -- but one singl word with thee ! nay -- the shuttl fli -- the figur float from forth the loom ; the freshet - rush carpet for ever slide away . the weaver - god , he weav ; and by that weav is he deafen , that he hear no mortal voic ; and by that hum , we , too , who look on the loom are deafen ; and onli when we escap it shall we hear the thousand voic that speak through it . for even so it is in all materi factori . the spoken word that are inaud among the fli spindl ; those same word are plainli heard without the wall , burst from the open casement . therebi have villaini been detect . Ah , mortal ! then , be heed ; for so , in all thi din of the great world ' s loom , thi subtlest think may be overheard afar . now , amid the green , life - restless loom of that arsacidean wood , the great , white , worship skeleton lay loung -- a gigant idler ! yet , as the ever - woven verdant warp and woof intermix and hum around him , the mighti idler seem the cun weaver ; himself all woven over with the vine ; everi month assum greener , fresher verdur ; but himself a skeleton . life fold death ; death trellis life ; the grim god wive with youth life , and begat him curli - head glori . now , when with royal tranquo I visit thi wondrou whale , and saw the skull an altar , and the artifici smoke ascend from where the real jet had issu , I marvel that the king should regard a chapel as an object of vertu . He laugh . but more I marvel that the priest should swear that smoki jet of hi wa genuin . To and fro I pace befor thi skeleton -- brush the vine asid -- broke through the rib -- and with a ball of arsacidean twine , wander , eddi long amid it mani wind , shade colonnad and arbour . but soon my line wa out ; and follow it back , I emerg from the open where I enter . I saw no live thing within ; naught wa there but bone . cut me a green measur - rod , I onc more dive within the skeleton . from their arrow - slit in the skull , the priest perceiv me take the altitud of the final rib , `` how now ! '' they shout ; `` dar ' st thou measur thi our god ! that ' s for us . '' `` aye , priest -- well , how long do ye make him , then ? '' but hereupon a fierc contest rose among them , concern feet and inch ; they crack each other ' s sconc with their yard - stick -- the great skull echo -- and seiz that lucki chanc , I quickli conclud my own admeasur . these admeasur I now propos to set befor you . but first , be it record , that , in thi matter , I am not free to utter ani fanci measur I pleas . becaus there are skeleton author you can refer to , to test my accuraci . there is a leviathan museum , they tell me , in hull , england , one of the whale port of that countri , where they have some fine specimen of fin - back and other whale . likewis , I have heard that in the museum of manchest , in new hampshir , they have what the proprietor call `` the onli perfect specimen of a greenland or river whale in the unit state . '' moreov , at a place in yorkshir , england , burton constabl by name , a certain sir clifford constabl ha in hi possess the skeleton of a sperm whale , but of moder size , by no mean of the full - grown magnitud of my friend king tranquo ' s . In both case , the strand whale to which these two skeleton belong , were origin claim by their proprietor upon similar ground . king tranquo seiz hi becaus he want it ; and sir clifford , becaus he wa lord of the seignori of those part . sir clifford ' s whale ha been articul throughout ; so that , like a great chest of drawer , you can open and shut him , in all hi boni caviti -- spread out hi rib like a gigant fan -- and swing all day upon hi lower jaw . lock are to be put upon some of hi trap - door and shutter ; and a footman will show round futur visitor with a bunch of key at hi side . sir clifford think of charg twopenc for a peep at the whisper galleri in the spinal column ; threepenc to hear the echo in the hollow of hi cerebellum ; and sixpenc for the unrival view from hi forehead . the skeleton dimens I shall now proceed to set down are copi verbatim from my right arm , where I had them tattoo ; as in my wild wander at that period , there wa no other secur way of preserv such valuabl statist . but as I wa crowd for space , and wish the other part of my bodi to remain a blank page for a poem I wa then compos -- at least , what untattoo part might remain -- I did not troubl myself with the odd inch ; nor , inde , should inch at all enter into a congeni admeasur of the whale . chapter 103 measur of the whale ' s skeleton . In the first place , I wish to lay befor you a particular , plain statement , touch the live bulk of thi leviathan , whose skeleton we are briefli to exhibit . such a statement may prove use here . accord to a care calcul I have made , and which I partli base upon captain scoresbi ' s estim , of seventi ton for the largest size greenland whale of sixti feet in length ; accord to my care calcul , I say , a sperm whale of the largest magnitud , between eighti - five and nineti feet in length , and someth less than forti feet in it fullest circumfer , such a whale will weigh at least nineti ton ; so that , reckon thirteen men to a ton , he would consider outweigh the combin popul of a whole villag of one thousand one hundr inhabit . think you not then that brain , like yoke cattl , should be put to thi leviathan , to make him at all budg to ani landsman ' s imagin ? have alreadi in variou way put befor you hi skull , spout - hole , jaw , teeth , tail , forehead , fin , and diver other part , I shall now simpli point out what is most interest in the gener bulk of hi unobstruct bone . but as the coloss skull embrac so veri larg a proport of the entir extent of the skeleton ; as it is by far the most complic part ; and as noth is to be repeat concern it in thi chapter , you must not fail to carri it in your mind , or under your arm , as we proceed , otherwis you will not gain a complet notion of the gener structur we are about to view . In length , the sperm whale ' s skeleton at tranqu measur seventi - two feet ; so that when fulli invest and extend in life , he must have been nineti feet long ; for in the whale , the skeleton lose about one fifth in length compar with the live bodi . Of thi seventi - two feet , hi skull and jaw compris some twenti feet , leav some fifti feet of plain back - bone . attach to thi back - bone , for someth less than a third of it length , wa the mighti circular basket of rib which onc enclos hi vital . To me thi vast ivori - rib chest , with the long , unreliev spine , extend far away from it in a straight line , not a littl resembl the hull of a great ship new - laid upon the stock , when onli some twenti of her nake bow - rib are insert , and the keel is otherwis , for the time , but a long , disconnect timber . the rib were ten on a side . the first , to begin from the neck , wa nearli six feet long ; the second , third , and fourth were each success longer , till you came to the climax of the fifth , or one of the middl rib , which measur eight feet and some inch . from that part , the remain rib diminish , till the tenth and last onli span five feet and some inch . In gener thick , they all bore a seemli correspond to their length . the middl rib were the most arch . In some of the arsacid they are use for beam whereon to lay footpath bridg over small stream . In consid these rib , I could not but be struck anew with the circumst , so various repeat in thi book , that the skeleton of the whale is by no mean the mould of hi invest form . the largest of the tranqu rib , one of the middl one , occupi that part of the fish which , in life , is greatest in depth . now , the greatest depth of the invest bodi of thi particular whale must have been at least sixteen feet ; wherea , the correspond rib measur but littl more than eight feet . So that thi rib onli convey half of the true notion of the live magnitud of that part . besid , for some way , where I now saw but a nake spine , all that had been onc wrap round with ton of ad bulk in flesh , muscl , blood , and bowel . still more , for the ampl fin , I here saw but a few disord joint ; and in place of the weighti and majest , but boneless fluke , an utter blank ! how vain and foolish , then , thought I , for timid untravel man to tri to comprehend aright thi wondrou whale , by mere pore over hi dead attenu skeleton , stretch in thi peac wood . No . onli in the heart of quickest peril ; onli when within the eddi of hi angri fluke ; onli on the profound unbound sea , can the fulli invest whale be truli and livingli found out . but the spine . for that , the best way we can consid it is , with a crane , to pile it bone high up on end . No speedi enterpris . but now it ' s done , it look much like pompey ' s pillar . there are forti and odd vertebra in all , which in the skeleton are not lock togeth . they mostli lie like the great knob block on a gothic spire , form solid cours of heavi masonri . the largest , a middl one , is in width someth less than three feet , and in depth more than four . the smallest , where the spine taper away into the tail , is onli two inch in width , and look someth like a white billiard - ball . I wa told that there were still smaller one , but they had been lost by some littl cannib urchin , the priest ' s children , who had stolen them to play marbl with . thu we see how that the spine of even the hugest of live thing taper off at last into simpl child ' s play . chapter 104 the fossil whale . from hi mighti bulk the whale afford a most congeni theme whereon to enlarg , amplifi , and gener expati . would you , you could not compress him . By good right he should onli be treat of in imperi folio . not to tell over again hi furlong from spiracl to tail , and the yard he measur about the waist ; onli think of the gigant involut of hi intestin , where they lie in him like great cabl and hawser coil away in the subterranean orlop - deck of a line - of - battl - ship . sinc I have undertaken to manhandl thi leviathan , it behoov me to approv myself omnisci exhaust in the enterpris ; not overlook the minutest semin germ of hi blood , and spin him out to the uttermost coil of hi bowel . have alreadi describ him in most of hi present habitatori and anatom peculiar , it now remain to magnifi him in an archaeolog , fossilifer , and antediluvian point of view . appli to ani other creatur than the leviathan -- to an ant or a flea -- such portli term might justli be deem unwarrant grandiloqu . but when leviathan is the text , the case is alter . fain am I to stagger to thi empris under the weightiest word of the dictionari . and here be it said , that whenev it ha been conveni to consult one in the cours of these dissert , I have invari use a huge quarto edit of johnson , expressli purchas for that purpos ; becaus that famou lexicograph ' s uncommon person bulk more fit him to compil a lexicon to be use by a whale author like me . one often hear of writer that rise and swell with their subject , though it may seem but an ordinari one . how , then , with me , write of thi leviathan ? unconsci my chirographi expand into placard capit . give me a condor ' s quill ! give me vesuviu ' crater for an inkstand ! friend , hold my arm ! for in the mere act of pen my thought of thi leviathan , they weari me , and make me faint with their outreach comprehens of sweep , as if to includ the whole circl of the scienc , and all the gener of whale , and men , and mastodon , past , present , and to come , with all the revolv panorama of empir on earth , and throughout the whole univers , not exclud it suburb . such , and so magnifi , is the virtu of a larg and liber theme ! We expand to it bulk . To produc a mighti book , you must choos a mighti theme . No great and endur volum can ever be written on the flea , though mani there be who have tri it . ere enter upon the subject of fossil whale , I present my credenti as a geologist , by state that in my miscellan time I have been a stone - mason , and also a great digger of ditch , canal and well , wine - vault , cellar , and cistern of all sort . likewis , by way of preliminari , I desir to remind the reader , that while in the earlier geolog strata there are found the fossil of monster now almost complet extinct ; the subsequ relic discov in what are call the tertiari format seem the connect , or at ani rate intercept link , between the antichron creatur , and those whose remot poster are said to have enter the ark ; all the fossil whale hitherto discov belong to the tertiari period , which is the last preced the superfici format . and though none of them precis answer to ani known speci of the present time , they are yet suffici akin to them in gener respect , to justifi their take rank as cetacean fossil . detach broken fossil of pre - adamit whale , fragment of their bone and skeleton , have within thirti year past , at variou interv , been found at the base of the alp , in lombardi , in franc , in england , in scotland , and in the state of louisiana , mississippi , and alabama . among the more curiou of such remain is part of a skull , which in the year 1779 wa disint in the rue dauphin in pari , a short street open almost directli upon the palac of the tuileri ; and bone disint in excav the great dock of antwerp , in napoleon ' s time . cuvier pronounc these fragment to have belong to some utterli unknown leviathan speci . but by far the most wonder of all cetacean relic wa the almost complet vast skeleton of an extinct monster , found in the year 1842 , on the plantat of judg creagh , in alabama . the awe - stricken credul slave in the vicin took it for the bone of one of the fallen angel . the alabama doctor declar it a huge reptil , and bestow upon it the name of basilosauru . but some specimen bone of it be taken across the sea to owen , the english anatomist , it turn out that thi alleg reptil wa a whale , though of a depart speci . A signific illustr of the fact , again and again repeat in thi book , that the skeleton of the whale furnish but littl clue to the shape of hi fulli invest bodi . So owen rechristen the monster zeuglodon ; and in hi paper read befor the london geolog societi , pronounc it , in substanc , one of the most extraordinari creatur which the mutat of the globe have blot out of exist . when I stand among these mighti leviathan skeleton , skull , tusk , jaw , rib , and vertebra , all character by partial resembl to the exist breed of sea - monster ; but at the same time bear on the other hand similar affin to the annihil antichron leviathan , their incalcul senior ; I am , by a flood , born back to that wondrou period , ere time itself can be said to have begun ; for time began with man . here saturn ' s grey chao roll over me , and I obtain dim , shudder glimps into those polar etern ; when wedg bastion of ice press hard upon what are now the tropic ; and in all the 25 , 000 mile of thi world ' s circumfer , not an inhabit hand ' s breadth of land wa visibl . then the whole world wa the whale ' s ; and , king of creation , he left hi wake along the present line of the and and the himmaleh . who can show a pedigre like leviathan ? ahab ' s harpoon had shed older blood than the pharaoh ' s . methuselah seem a school - boy . I look round to shake hand with shem . I am horror - struck at thi antemosa , unsourc exist of the unspeak terror of the whale , which , have been befor all time , must need exist after all human age are over . but not alon ha thi leviathan left hi pre - adamit trace in the stereotyp plate of natur , and in limeston and marl bequeath hi ancient bust ; but upon egyptian tablet , whose antiqu seem to claim for them an almost fossilifer charact , we find the unmistak print of hi fin . In an apart of the great templ of denderah , some fifti year ago , there wa discov upon the granit ceil a sculptur and paint planispher , abound in centaur , griffin , and dolphin , similar to the grotesqu figur on the celesti globe of the modern . glide among them , old leviathan swam as of yore ; wa there swim in that planispher , centuri befor solomon wa cradl . nor must there be omit anoth strang attest of the antiqu of the whale , in hi own osseou post - diluvian realiti , as set down by the vener john leo , the old barbari travel . `` not far from the sea - side , they have a templ , the rafter and beam of which are made of whale - bone ; for whale of a monstrou size are oftentim cast up dead upon that shore . the common peopl imagin , that by a secret power bestow by god upon the templ , no whale can pass it without immedi death . but the truth of the matter is , that on either side of the templ , there are rock that shoot two mile into the sea , and wound the whale when they light upon ' em . they keep a whale ' s rib of an incred length for a miracl , which lie upon the ground with it convex part uppermost , make an arch , the head of which can not be reach by a man upon a camel ' s back . thi rib ( say john leo ) is said to have layn there a hundr year befor I saw it . their historian affirm , that a prophet who prophesi ' d of mahomet , came from thi templ , and some do not stand to assert , that the prophet jona wa cast forth by the whale at the base of the templ . '' In thi afric templ of the whale I leav you , reader , and if you be a nantucket , and a whaleman , you will silent worship there . chapter 105 doe the whale ' s magnitud diminish ? -- will He perish ? inasmuch , then , as thi leviathan come flounder down upon us from the head - water of the etern , it may be fitli inquir , whether , in the long cours of hi gener , he ha not degener from the origin bulk of hi sire . but upon investig we find , that not onli are the whale of the present day superior in magnitud to those whose fossil remain are found in the tertiari system ( embrac a distinct geolog period prior to man ) , but of the whale found in that tertiari system , those belong to it latter format exceed in size those of it earlier one . Of all the pre - adamit whale yet exhum , by far the largest is the alabama one mention in the last chapter , and that wa less than seventi feet in length in the skeleton . wherea , we have alreadi seen , that the tape - measur give seventi - two feet for the skeleton of a larg size modern whale . and I have heard , on whalemen ' s author , that sperm whale have been captur near a hundr feet long at the time of captur . but may it not be , that while the whale of the present hour are an advanc in magnitud upon those of all previou geolog period ; may it not be , that sinc adam ' s time they have degener ? assuredli , we must conclud so , if we are to credit the account of such gentlemen as plini , and the ancient naturalist gener . for plini tell us of whale that embrac acr of live bulk , and aldrovandu of other which measur eight hundr feet in length -- rope walk and thame tunnel of whale ! and even in the day of bank and soland , cook ' s naturalist , we find a danish member of the academi of scienc set down certain iceland whale ( reydan - siskur , or wrinkl belli ) at one hundr and twenti yard ; that is , three hundr and sixti feet . and laceped , the french naturalist , in hi elabor histori of whale , in the veri begin of hi work ( page 3 ) , set down the right whale at one hundr metr , three hundr and twenti - eight feet . and thi work wa publish so late as A . D . 1825 . but will ani whaleman believ these stori ? No . the whale of to - day is as big as hi ancestor in plini ' s time . and if ever I go where plini is , I , a whaleman ( more than he wa ) , will make bold to tell him so . becaus I can not understand how it is , that while the egyptian mummi that were buri thousand of year befor even plini wa born , do not measur so much in their coffin as a modern kentuckian in hi sock ; and while the cattl and other anim sculptur on the oldest egyptian and nineveh tablet , by the rel proport in which they are drawn , just as plainli prove that the high - bred , stall - fed , prize cattl of smithfield , not onli equal , but far exceed in magnitud the fattest of pharaoh ' s fat kine ; in the face of all thi , I will not admit that of all anim the whale alon should have degener . but still anoth inquiri remain ; one often agit by the more recondit nantucket . whether owe to the almost omnisci look - out at the mast - head of the whaleship , now penetr even through behr ' s strait , and into the remotest secret drawer and locker of the world ; and the thousand harpoon and lanc dart along all continent coast ; the moot point is , whether leviathan can long endur so wide a chase , and so remorseless a havoc ; whether he must not at last be extermin from the water , and the last whale , like the last man , smoke hi last pipe , and then himself evapor in the final puff . compar the hump herd of whale with the hump herd of buffalo , which , not forti year ago , overspread by ten of thousand the prairi of illinoi and missouri , and shook their iron mane and scowl with their thunder - clot brow upon the site of popul river - capit , where now the polit broker sell you land at a dollar an inch ; in such a comparison an irresist argument would seem furnish , to show that the hunt whale can not now escap speedi extinct . but you must look at thi matter in everi light . though so short a period ago -- not a good lifetim -- the censu of the buffalo in illinoi exceed the censu of men now in london , and though at the present day not one horn or hoof of them remain in all that region ; and though the caus of thi wondrou extermin wa the spear of man ; yet the far differ natur of the whale - hunt peremptorili forbid so inglori an end to the leviathan . forti men in one ship hunt the sperm whale for forti - eight month think they have done extrem well , and thank god , if at last they carri home the oil of forti fish . wherea , in the day of the old canadian and indian hunter and trapper of the west , when the far west ( in whose sunset sun still rise ) wa a wilder and a virgin , the same number of moccasin men , for the same number of month , mount on hors instead of sail in ship , would have slain not forti , but forti thousand and more buffalo ; a fact that , if need were , could be statist state . nor , consid aright , doe it seem ani argument in favour of the gradual extinct of the sperm whale , for exampl , that in former year ( the latter part of the last centuri , say ) these leviathan , in small pod , were encount much often than at present , and , in consequ , the voyag were not so prolong , and were also much more remun . becaus , as ha been elsewher notic , those whale , influenc by some view to safeti , now swim the sea in immens caravan , so that to a larg degre the scatter solitari , yoke , and pod , and school of other day are now aggreg into vast but wide separ , unfrequ armi . that is all . and equal fallaci seem the conceit , that becaus the so - call whale - bone whale no longer haunt mani ground in former year abound with them , henc that speci also is declin . for they are onli be driven from promontori to cape ; and if one coast is no longer enliven with their jet , then , be sure , some other and remot strand ha been veri recent startl by the unfamiliar spectacl . furthermor : concern these last mention leviathan , they have two firm fortress , which , in all human probabl , will for ever remain impregn . and as upon the invas of their valley , the frosti swiss have retreat to their mountain ; so , hunt from the savanna and glade of the middl sea , the whale - bone whale can at last resort to their polar citadel , and dive under the ultim glassi barrier and wall there , come up among ici field and floe ; and in a charm circl of everlast decemb , bid defianc to all pursuit from man . but as perhap fifti of these whale - bone whale are harpoon for one cachalot , some philosoph of the forecastl have conclud that thi posit havoc ha alreadi veri serious diminish their battalion . but though for some time past a number of these whale , not less than 13 , 000 , have been annual slain on the nor '- west coast by the american alon ; yet there are consider which render even thi circumst of littl or no account as an oppos argument in thi matter . natur as it is to be somewhat incredul concern the popul of the more enorm creatur of the globe , yet what shall we say to harto , the historian of goa , when he tell us that at one hunt the king of siam took 4 , 000 eleph ; that in those region eleph are numer as drove of cattl in the temper clime . and there seem no reason to doubt that if these eleph , which have now been hunt for thousand of year , by semirami , by poru , by hannib , and by all the success monarch of the east -- if they still surviv there in great number , much more may the great whale outlast all hunt , sinc he ha a pastur to expati in , which is precis twice as larg as all asia , both america , europ and africa , new holland , and all the isl of the sea combin . moreov : we are to consid , that from the presum great longev of whale , their probabl attain the age of a centuri and more , therefor at ani one period of time , sever distinct adult gener must be contemporari . and what that is , we may soon gain some idea of , by imagin all the grave - yard , cemeteri , and famili vault of creation yield up the live bodi of all the men , women , and children who were aliv seventi - five year ago ; and ad thi countless host to the present human popul of the globe . wherefor , for all these thing , we account the whale immort in hi speci , howev perish in hi individu . He swam the sea befor the contin broke water ; he onc swam over the site of the tuileri , and windsor castl , and the kremlin . In noah ' s flood he despis noah ' s ark ; and if ever the world is to be again flood , like the netherland , to kill off it rat , then the etern whale will still surviv , and rear upon the topmost crest of the equatori flood , spout hi froth defianc to the sky . chapter 106 ahab ' s leg . the precipit manner in which captain ahab had quit the samuel enderbi of london , had not been unattend with some small violenc to hi own person . He had light with such energi upon a thwart of hi boat that hi ivori leg had receiv a half - splinter shock . and when after gain hi own deck , and hi own pivot - hole there , he so vehement wheel round with an urgent command to the steersman ( it wa , as ever , someth about hi not steer inflex enough ) ; then , the alreadi shaken ivori receiv such an addit twist and wrench , that though it still remain entir , and to all appear lusti , yet ahab did not deem it entir trustworthi . and , inde , it seem small matter for wonder , that for all hi pervad , mad reckless , ahab did at time give care heed to the condit of that dead bone upon which he partli stood . for it had not been veri long prior to the pequod ' s sail from nantucket , that he had been found one night lie prone upon the ground , and insens ; by some unknown , and seemingli inexplic , unimagin casualti , hi ivori limb have been so violent displac , that it had stake - wise smitten , and all but pierc hi groin ; nor wa it without extrem difficulti that the agon wound wa entir cure . nor , at the time , had it fail to enter hi monomaniac mind , that all the anguish of that then present suffer wa but the direct issu of a former woe ; and he too plainli seem to see , that as the most poison reptil of the marsh perpetu hi kind as inevit as the sweetest songster of the grove ; so , equal with everi felic , all miser event do natur beget their like . yea , more than equal , thought ahab ; sinc both the ancestri and poster of grief go further than the ancestri and poster of joy . for , not to hint of thi : that it is an infer from certain canon teach , that while some natur enjoy here shall have no children born to them for the other world , but , on the contrari , shall be follow by the joy - childless of all hell ' s despair ; wherea , some guilti mortal miseri shall still fertil beget to themselv an etern progress progeni of grief beyond the grave ; not at all to hint of thi , there still seem an inequ in the deeper analysi of the thing . for , thought ahab , while even the highest earthli felic ever have a certain unsignifi petti lurk in them , but , at bottom , all heartwo , a mystic signific , and , in some men , an archangel grandeur ; so do their dilig trace - out not beli the obviou deduct . To trail the genealog of these high mortal miseri , carri us at last among the sourceless primogenitur of the god ; so that , in the face of all the glad , hay - make sun , and soft cymbal , round harvest - moon , we must need give in to thi : that the god themselv are not for ever glad . the ineffac , sad birth - mark in the brow of man , is but the stamp of sorrow in the signer . unwittingli here a secret ha been divulg , which perhap might more properli , in set way , have been disclos befor . with mani other particular concern ahab , alway had it remain a mysteri to some , whi it wa , that for a certain period , both befor and after the sail of the pequod , he had hidden himself away with such grand - lama - like exclus ; and , for that one interv , sought speechless refug , as it were , among the marbl senat of the dead . captain peleg ' s bruit reason for thi thing appear by no mean adequ ; though , inde , as touch all ahab ' s deeper part , everi revel partook more of signific dark than of explanatori light . but , in the end , it all came out ; thi one matter did , at least . that dire mishap wa at the bottom of hi temporari reclus . and not onli thi , but to that ever - contract , drop circl ashor , who , for ani reason , possess the privileg of a less ban approach to him ; to that timid circl the abov hint casualti -- remain , as it did , moodili unaccount for by ahab -- invest itself with terror , not entir underiv from the land of spirit and of wail . So that , through their zeal for him , they had all conspir , so far as in them lay , to muffl up the knowledg of thi thing from other ; and henc it wa , that not till a consider interv had elaps , did it transpir upon the pequod ' s deck . but be all thi as it may ; let the unseen , ambigu synod in the air , or the vindict princ and potent of fire , have to do or not with earthli ahab , yet , in thi present matter of hi leg , he took plain practic procedur ; -- he call the carpent . and when that functionari appear befor him , he bade him without delay set about make a new leg , and direct the mate to see him suppli with all the stud and joist of jaw - ivori ( sperm whale ) which had thu far been accumul on the voyag , in order that a care select of the stoutest , clearest - grain stuff might be secur . thi done , the carpent receiv order to have the leg complet that night ; and to provid all the fit for it , independ of those pertain to the distrust one in use . moreov , the ship ' s forg wa order to be hoist out of it temporari idl in the hold ; and , to acceler the affair , the blacksmith wa command to proceed at onc to the forg of whatev iron contriv might be need . chapter 107 the carpent . seat thyself sultan among the moon of saturn , and take high abstract man alon ; and he seem a wonder , a grandeur , and a woe . but from the same point , take mankind in mass , and for the most part , they seem a mob of unnecessari duplic , both contemporari and hereditari . but most humbl though he wa , and far from furnish an exampl of the high , human abstract ; the pequod ' s carpent wa no duplic ; henc , he now come in person on thi stage . like all sea - go ship carpent , and more especi those belong to whale vessel , he wa , to a certain off - hand , practic extent , alik experienc in numer trade and call collater to hi own ; the carpent ' s pursuit be the ancient and outbranch trunk of all those numer handicraft which more or less have to do with wood as an auxiliari materi . but , besid the applic to him of the gener remark abov , thi carpent of the pequod wa singularli effici in those thousand nameless mechan emerg continu recur in a larg ship , upon a three or four year ' voyag , in uncivil and far - distant sea . for not to speak of hi readi in ordinari duti : -- repair stove boat , sprung spar , reform the shape of clumsi - blade oar , insert bull ' s eye in the deck , or new tree - nail in the side plank , and other miscellan matter more directli pertain to hi special busi ; he wa moreov unhesitatingli expert in all manner of conflict aptitud , both use and caprici . the one grand stage where he enact all hi variou part so manifold , wa hi vice - bench ; a long rude ponder tabl furnish with sever vice , of differ size , and both of iron and of wood . At all time except when whale were alongsid , thi bench wa secur lash athwartship against the rear of the tri - work . A belay pin is found too larg to be easili insert into it hole : the carpent clap it into one of hi ever - readi vice , and straightway file it smaller . A lost land - bird of strang plumag stray on board , and is made a captiv : out of clean shave rod of right - whale bone , and cross - beam of sperm whale ivori , the carpent make a pagoda - look cage for it . An oarsman sprain hi wrist : the carpent concoct a sooth lotion . stubb long for vermillion star to be paint upon the blade of hi everi oar ; screw each oar in hi big vice of wood , the carpent symmetr suppli the constel . A sailor take a fanci to wear shark - bone ear - ring : the carpent drill hi ear . anoth ha the toothach : the carpent out pincer , and clap one hand upon hi bench bid him be seat there ; but the poor fellow unmanag winc under the unconclud oper ; whirl round the handl of hi wooden vice , the carpent sign him to clap hi jaw in that , if he would have him draw the tooth . thu , thi carpent wa prepar at all point , and alik indiffer and without respect in all . teeth he account bit of ivori ; head he deem but top - block ; men themselv he lightli held for capstan . but while now upon so wide a field thu various accomplish and with such liveli of expert in him , too ; all thi would seem to argu some uncommon vivac of intellig . but not precis so . for noth wa thi man more remark , than for a certain imperson stolid as it were ; imperson , I say ; for it so shade off into the surround infinit of thing , that it seem one with the gener stolid discern in the whole visibl world ; which while pauselessli activ in uncount mode , still etern hold it peac , and ignor you , though you dig foundat for cathedr . yet wa thi half - horribl stolid in him , involv , too , as it appear , an all - ramifi heartless ; -- yet wa it oddli dash at time , with an old , crutch - like , antediluvian , wheez humor , not unstreak now and then with a certain grizzl witti ; such as might have serv to pass the time dure the midnight watch on the beard forecastl of noah ' s ark . wa it that thi old carpent had been a life - long wander , whose much roll , to and fro , not onli had gather no moss ; but what is more , had rub off whatev small outward cling might have origin pertain to him ? He wa a stript abstract ; an unfract integr ; uncompromis as a new - born babe ; live without premedit refer to thi world or the next . you might almost say , that thi strang uncompromised in him involv a sort of unintellig ; for in hi numer trade , he did not seem to work so much by reason or by instinct , or simpli becaus he had been tutor to it , or by ani intermixtur of all these , even or uneven ; but mere by a kind of deaf and dumb , spontan liter process . He wa a pure manipul ; hi brain , if he had ever had one , must have earli ooz along into the muscl of hi finger . He wa like one of those unreason but still highli use , multum IN parvo , sheffield contriv , assum the exterior -- though a littl swell -- of a common pocket knife ; but contain , not onli blade of variou size , but also screw - driver , cork - screw , tweezer , awl , pen , ruler , nail - filer , countersink . So , if hi superior want to use the carpent for a screw - driver , all they had to do wa to open that part of him , and the screw wa fast : or if for tweezer , take him up by the leg , and there they were . yet , as previous hint , thi omnitool , open - and - shut carpent , wa , after all , no mere machin of an automaton . If he did not have a common soul in him , he had a subtl someth that somehow anomal did it duti . what that wa , whether essenc of quicksilv , or a few drop of hartshorn , there is no tell . but there it wa ; and there it had abid for now some sixti year or more . and thi it wa , thi same unaccount , cun life - principl in him ; thi it wa , that kept him a great part of the time soliloqu ; but onli like an unreason wheel , which also hummingli soliloqu ; or rather , hi bodi wa a sentri - box and thi soliloqu on guard there , and talk all the time to keep himself awak . chapter 108 ahab and the carpent . the deck -- first night watch . ( carpent stand befor hi vice - bench , and BY the light OF two lantern busili file the ivori joist for the leg , which joist IS firmli fix IN the vice . slab OF ivori , leather strap , pad , screw , and variou tool OF all sort ly about the bench . forward , the red flame OF the forg IS seen , where the blacksmith IS AT work . ) drat the file , and drat the bone ! that is hard which should be soft , and that is soft which should be hard . So we go , who file old jaw and shinbon . let ' s tri anoth . aye , now , thi work better ( sneez ) . halloa , thi bone dust is ( sneez ) -- whi it ' s ( sneez ) -- ye it ' s ( sneez ) -- bless my soul , it won ' t let me speak ! thi is what an old fellow get now for work in dead lumber . saw a live tree , and you don ' t get thi dust ; amput a live bone , and you don ' t get it ( sneez ) . come , come , you old smut , there , bear a hand , and let ' s have that ferul and buckl - screw ; I ' ll be readi for them present . lucki now ( sneez ) there ' s no knee - joint to make ; that might puzzl a littl ; but a mere shinbon -- whi it ' s easi as make hop - pole ; onli I should like to put a good finish on . time , time ; if I but onli had the time , I could turn him out as neat a leg now as ever ( sneez ) scrape to a ladi in a parlor . those buckskin leg and calv of leg I ' ve seen in shop window wouldn ' t compar at all . they soak water , they do ; and of cours get rheumat , and have to be doctor ( sneez ) with wash and lotion , just like live leg . there ; befor I saw it off , now , I must call hi old mogulship , and see whether the length will be all right ; too short , if anyth , I guess . Ha ! that ' s the heel ; we are in luck ; here he come , or it ' s somebodi els , that ' s certain . ahab ( advanc ) ( dure the ensu scene , the carpent continu sneez AT time ) well , manmak ! just in time , sir . If the captain pleas , I will now mark the length . let me measur , sir . measur for a leg ! good . well , it ' s not the first time . about it ! there ; keep thi finger on it . thi is a cogent vice thou hast here , carpent ; let me feel it grip onc . So , so ; it doe pinch some . Oh , sir , it will break bone -- bewar , bewar ! No fear ; I like a good grip ; I like to feel someth in thi slipperi world that can hold , man . what ' s prometheu about there ? -- the blacksmith , I mean -- what ' s he about ? He must be forg the buckl - screw , sir , now . right . It ' s a partnership ; he suppli the muscl part . He make a fierc red flame there ! aye , sir ; he must have the white heat for thi kind of fine work . Um - m . So he must . I do deem it now a most mean thing , that that old greek , prometheu , who made men , they say , should have been a blacksmith , and anim them with fire ; for what ' s made in fire must properli belong to fire ; and so hell ' s probabl . how the soot fli ! thi must be the remaind the greek made the african of . carpent , when he ' s through with that buckl , tell him to forg a pair of steel shoulder - blade ; there ' s a pedlar aboard with a crush pack . sir ? hold ; while prometheu is about it , I ' ll order a complet man after a desir pattern . imprimi , fifti feet high in hi sock ; then , chest model after the thame tunnel ; then , leg with root to ' em , to stay in one place ; then , arm three feet through the wrist ; no heart at all , brass forehead , and about a quarter of an acr of fine brain ; and let me see -- shall I order eye to see outward ? No , but put a sky - light on top of hi head to illumin inward . there , take the order , and away . now , what ' s he speak about , and who ' s he speak to , I should like to know ? shall I keep stand here ? ( asid ) . ' ti but indiffer architectur to make a blind dome ; here ' s one . No , no , no ; I must have a lantern . Ho , ho ! that ' s it , hey ? here are two , sir ; one will serv my turn . what art thou thrust that thief - catcher into my face for , man ? thrust light is wors than present pistol . I thought , sir , that you spoke to carpent . carpent ? whi that ' s -- but no ; -- a veri tidi , and , I may say , an extrem gentlemanlik sort of busi thou art in here , carpent ; -- or would ' st thou rather work in clay ? sir ? -- clay ? clay , sir ? that ' s mud ; we leav clay to ditcher , sir . the fellow ' s impiou ! what art thou sneez about ? bone is rather dusti , sir . take the hint , then ; and when thou art dead , never buri thyself under live peopl ' s nose . sir ? -- oh ! ah ! -- I guess so ; -- ye -- dear ! look ye , carpent , I dare say thou callest thyself a right good workmanlik workman , eh ? well , then , will it speak thoroughli well for thi work , if , when I come to mount thi leg thou makest , I shall nevertheless feel anoth leg in the same ident place with it ; that is , carpent , my old lost leg ; the flesh and blood one , I mean . canst thou not drive that old adam away ? truli , sir , I begin to understand somewhat now . ye , I have heard someth curiou on that score , sir ; how that a dismast man never entir lose the feel of hi old spar , but it will be still prick him at time . may I humbl ask if it be realli so , sir ? It is , man . look , put thi live leg here in the place where mine onc wa ; so , now , here is onli one distinct leg to the eye , yet two to the soul . where thou feelest tingl life ; there , exactli there , there to a hair , do I . Is ' t a riddl ? I should humbl call it a poser , sir . hist , then . how dost thou know that some entir , live , think thing may not be invis and uninterpenetratingli stand precis where thou now standest ; aye , and stand there in thi spite ? In thi most solitari hour , then , dost thou not fear eavesdropp ? hold , don ' t speak ! and if I still feel the smart of my crush leg , though it be now so long dissolv ; then , whi mayst not thou , carpent , feel the fieri pain of hell for ever , and without a bodi ? hah ! good lord ! truli , sir , if it come to that , I must calcul over again ; I think I didn ' t carri a small figur , sir . look ye , pud - head should never grant premis . -- how long befor the leg is done ? perhap an hour , sir . bungl away at it then , and bring it to me ( turn TO GO ) . Oh , life ! here I am , proud as greek god , and yet stand debtor to thi blockhead for a bone to stand on ! curs be that mortal inter - indebted which will not do away with ledger . I would be free as air ; and I ' m down in the whole world ' s book . I am so rich , I could have given bid for bid with the wealthiest praetorian at the auction of the roman empir ( which wa the world ' s ) ; and yet I owe for the flesh in the tongu I brag with . By heaven ! I ' ll get a crucibl , and into it , and dissolv myself down to one small , compendi vertebra . So . carpent ( resum hi work ) . well , well , well ! stubb know him best of all , and stubb alway say he ' s queer ; say noth but that one suffici littl word queer ; he ' s queer , say stubb ; he ' s queer -- queer , queer ; and keep din it into Mr . starbuck all the time -- queer -- sir -- queer , queer , veri queer . and here ' s hi leg ! ye , now that I think of it , here ' s hi bedfellow ! ha a stick of whale ' s jaw - bone for a wife ! and thi is hi leg ; he ' ll stand on thi . what wa that now about one leg stand in three place , and all three place stand in one hell -- how wa that ? Oh ! I don ' t wonder he look so scorn at me ! I ' m a sort of strang - thought sometim , they say ; but that ' s onli haphazard - like . then , a short , littl old bodi like me , should never undertak to wade out into deep water with tall , heron - built captain ; the water chuck you under the chin pretti quick , and there ' s a great cri for life - boat . and here ' s the heron ' s leg ! long and slim , sure enough ! now , for most folk one pair of leg last a lifetim , and that must be becaus they use them merci , as a tender - heart old ladi use her roli - poli old coach - hors . but ahab ; oh he ' s a hard driver . look , driven one leg to death , and spavin the other for life , and now wear out bone leg by the cord . halloa , there , you smut ! bear a hand there with those screw , and let ' s finish it befor the resurrect fellow come a - call with hi horn for all leg , true or fals , as breweri - men go round collect old beer barrel , to fill ' em up again . what a leg thi is ! It look like a real live leg , file down to noth but the core ; he ' ll be stand on thi to - morrow ; he ' ll be take altitud on it . halloa ! I almost forgot the littl oval slate , smooth ivori , where he figur up the latitud . So , so ; chisel , file , and sand - paper , now ! chapter 109 ahab and starbuck in the cabin . accord to usag they were pump the ship next morn ; and lo ! no inconsider oil came up with the water ; the cask below must have sprung a bad leak . much concern wa shown ; and starbuck went down into the cabin to report thi unfavour affair . * * In sperm - whalemen with ani consider quantiti of oil on board , it is a regular semiweekli duti to conduct a hose into the hold , and drench the cask with sea - water ; which afterward , at vari interv , is remov by the ship ' s pump . herebi the cask are sought to be kept dampli tight ; while by the chang charact of the withdrawn water , the marin readili detect ani seriou leakag in the preciou cargo . now , from the south and west the pequod wa draw nigh to formosa and the bashe isl , between which lie one of the tropic outlet from the china water into the pacif . and so starbuck found ahab with a gener chart of the orient archipelago spread befor him ; and anoth separ one repres the long eastern coast of the japanes island -- niphon , matsmai , and sikok . with hi snow - white new ivori leg brace against the screw leg of hi tabl , and with a long prune - hook of a jack - knife in hi hand , the wondrou old man , with hi back to the gangway door , wa wrinkl hi brow , and trace hi old cours again . `` who ' s there ? '' hear the footstep at the door , but not turn round to it . `` On deck ! begon ! '' `` captain ahab mistak ; it is I . the oil in the hold is leak , sir . We must up burton and break out . '' `` Up burton and break out ? now that we are near japan ; heav - to here for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoop ? '' `` either do that , sir , or wast in one day more oil than we may make good in a year . what we come twenti thousand mile to get is worth save , sir . '' `` So it is , so it is ; if we get it . '' `` I wa speak of the oil in the hold , sir . '' `` and I wa not speak or think of that at all . begon ! let it leak ! I ' m all aleak myself . aye ! leak in leak ! not onli full of leaki cask , but those leaki cask are in a leaki ship ; and that ' s a far wors plight than the pequod ' s , man . yet I don ' t stop to plug my leak ; for who can find it in the deep - load hull ; or how hope to plug it , even if found , in thi life ' s howl gale ? starbuck ! I ' ll not have the burton hoist . '' `` what will the owner say , sir ? '' `` let the owner stand on nantucket beach and outyel the typhoon . what care ahab ? owner , owner ? thou art alway prate to me , starbuck , about those miserli owner , as if the owner were my conscienc . but look ye , the onli real owner of anyth is it command ; and hark ye , my conscienc is in thi ship ' s keel . -- On deck ! '' `` captain ahab , '' said the redden mate , move further into the cabin , with a dare so strang respect and cautiou that it almost seem not onli everi way seek to avoid the slightest outward manifest of itself , but within also seem more than half distrust of itself ; `` A better man than I might well pass over in thee what he would quickli enough resent in a younger man ; aye , and in a happier , captain ahab . '' `` devil ! dost thou then so much as dare to critic think of me ? -- On deck ! '' `` nay , sir , not yet ; I do entreat . and I do dare , sir -- to be forbear ! shall we not understand each other better than hitherto , captain ahab ? '' ahab seiz a load musket from the rack ( form part of most south - sea - men ' s cabin furnitur ) , and point it toward starbuck , exclaim : `` there is one god that is lord over the earth , and one captain that is lord over the pequod . -- On deck ! '' for an instant in the flash eye of the mate , and hi fieri cheek , you would have almost thought that he had realli receiv the blaze of the level tube . but , master hi emot , he half calmli rose , and as he quit the cabin , paus for an instant and said : `` thou hast outrag , not insult me , sir ; but for that I ask thee not to bewar of starbuck ; thou wouldst but laugh ; but let ahab bewar of ahab ; bewar of thyself , old man . '' `` He wax brave , but nevertheless obey ; most care braveri that ! '' murmur ahab , as starbuck disappear . `` what ' s that he said -- ahab bewar of ahab -- there ' s someth there ! '' then unconsci use the musket for a staff , with an iron brow he pace to and fro in the littl cabin ; but present the thick plait of hi forehead relax , and return the gun to the rack , he went to the deck . `` thou art but too good a fellow , starbuck , '' he said lowli to the mate ; then rais hi voic to the crew : `` furl the t ' gallant - sail , and close - reef the top - sail , fore and aft ; back the main - yard ; up burton , and break out in the main - hold . '' It were perhap vain to surmis exactli whi it wa , that as respect starbuck , ahab thu act . It may have been a flash of honesti in him ; or mere prudenti polici which , under the circumst , imperi forbad the slightest symptom of open disaffect , howev transient , in the import chief offic of hi ship . howev it wa , hi order were execut ; and the burton were hoist . chapter 110 queequeg in hi coffin . upon search , it wa found that the cask last struck into the hold were perfectli sound , and that the leak must be further off . So , it be calm weather , they broke out deeper and deeper , disturb the slumber of the huge ground - tier butt ; and from that black midnight send those gigant mole into the daylight abov . So deep did they go ; and so ancient , and corrod , and weedi the aspect of the lowermost puncheon , that you almost look next for some mouldi corner - stone cask contain coin of captain noah , with copi of the post placard , vainli warn the infatu old world from the flood . tierc after tierc , too , of water , and bread , and beef , and shook of stave , and iron bundl of hoop , were hoist out , till at last the pile deck were hard to get about ; and the hollow hull echo under foot , as if you were tread over empti catacomb , and reel and roll in the sea like an air - freight demijohn . top - heavi wa the ship as a dinnerless student with all aristotl in hi head . well wa it that the typhoon did not visit them then . now , at thi time it wa that my poor pagan companion , and fast bosom - friend , queequeg , wa seiz with a fever , which brought him nigh to hi endless end . Be it said , that in thi vocat of whale , sinecur are unknown ; digniti and danger go hand in hand ; till you get to be captain , the higher you rise the harder you toil . So with poor queequeg , who , as harpoon , must not onli face all the rage of the live whale , but -- as we have elsewher seen -- mount hi dead back in a roll sea ; and final descend into the gloom of the hold , and bitterli sweat all day in that subterran confin , resolut manhandl the clumsiest cask and see to their stowag . To be short , among whalemen , the harpoon are the holder , so call . poor queequeg ! when the ship wa about half disembowel , you should have stoop over the hatchway , and peer down upon him there ; where , strip to hi woollen drawer , the tattoo savag wa crawl about amid that damp and slime , like a green spot lizard at the bottom of a well . and a well , or an ice - hous , it somehow prove to him , poor pagan ; where , strang to say , for all the heat of hi sweat , he caught a terribl chill which laps into a fever ; and at last , after some day ' suffer , laid him in hi hammock , close to the veri sill of the door of death . how he wast and wast away in those few long - linger day , till there seem but littl left of him but hi frame and tattoo . but as all els in him thin , and hi cheek - bone grew sharper , hi eye , nevertheless , seem grow fuller and fuller ; they becam of a strang soft of lustr ; and mildli but deepli look out at you there from hi sick , a wondrou testimoni to that immort health in him which could not die , or be weaken . and like circl on the water , which , as they grow fainter , expand ; so hi eye seem round and round , like the ring of etern . An awe that can not be name would steal over you as you sat by the side of thi wane savag , and saw as strang thing in hi face , as ani beheld who were bystand when zoroast die . for whatev is truli wondrou and fear in man , never yet wa put into word or book . and the draw near of death , which alik level all , alik impress all with a last revel , which onli an author from the dead could adequ tell . So that -- let us say it again -- no die chalde or greek had higher and holier thought than those , whose mysteri shade you saw creep over the face of poor queequeg , as he quietli lay in hi sway hammock , and the roll sea seem gentli rock him to hi final rest , and the ocean ' s invis flood - tide lift him higher and higher toward hi destin heaven . not a man of the crew but gave him up ; and , as for queequeg himself , what he thought of hi case wa forcibl shown by a curiou favour he ask . He call one to him in the grey morn watch , when the day wa just break , and take hi hand , said that while in nantucket he had chanc to see certain littl cano of dark wood , like the rich war - wood of hi nativ isl ; and upon inquiri , he had learn that all whalemen who die in nantucket , were laid in those same dark cano , and that the fanci of be so laid had much pleas him ; for it wa not unlik the custom of hi own race , who , after embalm a dead warrior , stretch him out in hi cano , and so left him to be float away to the starri archipelago ; for not onli do they believ that the star are isl , but that far beyond all visibl horizon , their own mild , uncontin sea , interflow with the blue heaven ; and so form the white breaker of the milki way . He ad , that he shudder at the thought of be buri in hi hammock , accord to the usual sea - custom , toss like someth vile to the death - devour shark . No : he desir a cano like those of nantucket , all the more congeni to him , be a whaleman , that like a whale - boat these coffin - cano were without a keel ; though that involv but uncertain steer , and much lee - way adown the dim age . now , when thi strang circumst wa made known aft , the carpent wa at onc command to do queequeg ' s bid , whatev it might includ . there wa some heathenish , coffin - colour old lumber aboard , which , upon a long previou voyag , had been cut from the aborigin grove of the lackaday island , and from these dark plank the coffin wa recommend to be made . No sooner wa the carpent appris of the order , than take hi rule , he forthwith with all the indiffer promptitud of hi charact , proceed into the forecastl and took queequeg ' s measur with great accuraci , regularli chalk queequeg ' s person as he shift the rule . `` Ah ! poor fellow ! he ' ll have to die now , '' ejacul the long island sailor . go to hi vice - bench , the carpent for conveni sake and gener refer , now transferringli measur on it the exact length the coffin wa to be , and then made the transfer perman by cut two notch at it extrem . thi done , he marshal the plank and hi tool , and to work . when the last nail wa driven , and the lid duli plane and fit , he lightli shoulder the coffin and went forward with it , inquir whether they were readi for it yet in that direct . overhear the indign but half - humor cri with which the peopl on deck began to drive the coffin away , queequeg , to everi one ' s constern , command that the thing should be instantli brought to him , nor wa there ani deni him ; see that , of all mortal , some die men are the most tyrann ; and certainli , sinc they will shortli troubl us so littl for evermor , the poor fellow ought to be indulg . lean over in hi hammock , queequeg long regard the coffin with an attent eye . He then call for hi harpoon , had the wooden stock drawn from it , and then had the iron part place in the coffin along with one of the paddl of hi boat . all by hi own request , also , biscuit were then rang round the side within : a flask of fresh water wa place at the head , and a small bag of woodi earth scrape up in the hold at the foot ; and a piec of sail - cloth be roll up for a pillow , queequeg now entreat to be lift into hi final bed , that he might make trial of it comfort , if ani it had . He lay without move a few minut , then told one to go to hi bag and bring out hi littl god , yojo . then cross hi arm on hi breast with yojo between , he call for the coffin lid ( hatch he call it ) to be place over him . the head part turn over with a leather hing , and there lay queequeg in hi coffin with littl but hi compos counten in view . `` rarmai `` ( it will do ; it is easi ) , he murmur at last , and sign to be replac in hi hammock . but ere thi wa done , pip , who had been slili hover near by all thi while , drew nigh to him where he lay , and with soft sob , took him by the hand ; in the other , hold hi tambourin . `` poor rover ! will ye never have done with all thi weari rove ? where go ye now ? but if the current carri ye to those sweet antil where the beach are onli beat with water - lili , will ye do one littl errand for me ? seek out one pip , who ' s now been miss long : I think he ' s in those far antil . If ye find him , then comfort him ; for he must be veri sad ; for look ! he ' s left hi tambourin behind ; -- I found it . rig - a - dig , dig , dig ! now , queequeg , die ; and I ' ll beat ye your die march . '' `` I have heard , '' murmur starbuck , gaze down the scuttl , `` that in violent fever , men , all ignor , have talk in ancient tongu ; and that when the mysteri is probe , it turn out alway that in their wholli forgotten childhood those ancient tongu had been realli spoken in their hear by some lofti scholar . So , to my fond faith , poor pip , in thi strang sweet of hi lunaci , bring heavenli voucher of all our heavenli home . where learn he that , but there ? -- hark ! he speak again : but more wildli now . '' `` form two and two ! let ' s make a gener of him ! Ho , where ' s hi harpoon ? lay it across here . -- rig - a - dig , dig , dig ! huzza ! Oh for a game cock now to sit upon hi head and crow ! queequeg die game ! -- mind ye that ; queequeg die game ! -- take ye good heed of that ; queequeg die game ! I say ; game , game , game ! but base littl pip , he die a coward ; die all a ' shiver ; -- out upon pip ! hark ye ; if ye find pip , tell all the antil he ' s a runaway ; a coward , a coward , a coward ! tell them he jump from a whale - boat ! I ' d never beat my tambourin over base pip , and hail him gener , if he were onc more die here . No , no ! shame upon all coward -- shame upon them ! let ' em go drown like pip , that jump from a whale - boat . shame ! shame ! '' dure all thi , queequeg lay with close eye , as if in a dream . pip wa led away , and the sick man wa replac in hi hammock . but now that he had appar made everi prepar for death ; now that hi coffin wa prove a good fit , queequeg suddenli ralli ; soon there seem no need of the carpent ' s box : and thereupon , when some express their delight surpris , he , in substanc , said , that the caus of hi sudden convalesc wa thi ; -- at a critic moment , he had just recal a littl duti ashor , which he wa leav undon ; and therefor had chang hi mind about die : he could not die yet , he aver . they ask him , then , whether to live or die wa a matter of hi own sovereign will and pleasur . He answer , certainli . In a word , it wa queequeg ' s conceit , that if a man made up hi mind to live , mere sick could not kill him : noth but a whale , or a gale , or some violent , ungovern , unintellig destroy of that sort . now , there is thi noteworthi differ between savag and civil ; that while a sick , civil man may be six month convalesc , gener speak , a sick savag is almost half - well again in a day . So , in good time my queequeg gain strength ; and at length after sit on the windlass for a few indol day ( but eat with a vigor appetit ) he suddenli leap to hi feet , threw out hi arm and leg , gave himself a good stretch , yawn a littl bit , and then spring into the head of hi hoist boat , and pois a harpoon , pronounc himself fit for a fight . with a wild whimsi , he now use hi coffin for a sea - chest ; and empti into it hi canva bag of cloth , set them in order there . mani spare hour he spent , in carv the lid with all manner of grotesqu figur and draw ; and it seem that herebi he wa strive , in hi rude way , to copi part of the twist tattoo on hi bodi . and thi tattoo had been the work of a depart prophet and seer of hi island , who , by those hieroglyph mark , had written out on hi bodi a complet theori of the heaven and the earth , and a mystic treatis on the art of attain truth ; so that queequeg in hi own proper person wa a riddl to unfold ; a wondrou work in one volum ; but whose mysteri not even himself could read , though hi own live heart beat against them ; and these mysteri were therefor destin in the end to moulder away with the live parchment whereon they were inscrib , and so be unsolv to the last . and thi thought it must have been which suggest to ahab that wild exclam of hi , when one morn turn away from survey poor queequeg -- '' Oh , devilish tantal of the god ! '' chapter 111 the pacif . when glide by the bashe isl we emerg at last upon the great south sea ; were it not for other thing , I could have greet my dear pacif with uncount thank , for now the long supplic of my youth wa answer ; that seren ocean roll eastward from me a thousand leagu of blue . there is , one know not what sweet mysteri about thi sea , whose gentli aw stir seem to speak of some hidden soul beneath ; like those fabl undul of the ephesian sod over the buri evangelist St . john . and meet it is , that over these sea - pastur , wide - roll wateri prairi and potter ' field of all four contin , the wave should rise and fall , and ebb and flow unceasingli ; for here , million of mix shade and shadow , drown dream , somnambul , reveri ; all that we call live and soul , lie dream , dream , still ; toss like slumber in their bed ; the ever - roll wave but made so by their restless . To ani medit magian rover , thi seren pacif , onc beheld , must ever after be the sea of hi adopt . It roll the midmost water of the world , the indian ocean and atlant be but it arm . the same wave wash the mole of the new - built californian town , but yesterday plant by the recentest race of men , and lave the fade but still gorgeou skirt of asiat land , older than abraham ; while all between float milki - way of coral isl , and low - lie , endless , unknown archipelago , and impenetr japan . thu thi mysteri , divin pacif zone the world ' s whole bulk about ; make all coast one bay to it ; seem the tide - beat heart of earth . lift by those etern swell , you need must own the seduct god , bow your head to pan . but few thought of pan stir ahab ' s brain , as stand like an iron statu at hi accustom place besid the mizen rig , with one nostril he unthinkingli snuf the sugari musk from the bashe isl ( in whose sweet wood mild lover must be walk ) , and with the other conscious inhal the salt breath of the new found sea ; that sea in which the hate white whale must even then be swim . launch at length upon these almost final water , and glide toward the japanes cruis - ground , the old man ' s purpos intensifi itself . hi firm lip met like the lip of a vice ; the delta of hi forehead ' s vein swell like overladen brook ; in hi veri sleep , hi ring cri ran through the vault hull , `` stern all ! the white whale spout thick blood ! '' chapter 112 the blacksmith . avail himself of the mild , summer - cool weather that now reign in these latitud , and in prepar for the peculiarli activ pursuit shortli to be anticip , perth , the begrim , blister old blacksmith , had not remov hi portabl forg to the hold again , after conclud hi contributori work for ahab ' s leg , but still retain it on deck , fast lash to ringbolt by the foremast ; be now almost incessantli invok by the headsmen , and harpoon , and bowsmen to do some littl job for them ; alter , or repair , or new shape their variou weapon and boat furnitur . often he would be surround by an eager circl , all wait to be serv ; hold boat - spade , pike - head , harpoon , and lanc , and jealous watch hi everi sooti movement , as he toil . nevertheless , thi old man ' s wa a patient hammer wield by a patient arm . No murmur , no impati , no petul did come from him . silent , slow , and solemn ; bow over still further hi chronic broken back , he toil away , as if toil were life itself , and the heavi beat of hi hammer the heavi beat of hi heart . and so it wa . -- most miser ! A peculiar walk in thi old man , a certain slight but pain appear yaw in hi gait , had at an earli period of the voyag excit the curios of the marin . and to the importun of their persist question he had final given in ; and so it came to pass that everi one now knew the shame stori of hi wretch fate . belat , and not innoc , one bitter winter ' s midnight , on the road run between two countri town , the blacksmith half - stupidli felt the deadli numb steal over him , and sought refug in a lean , dilapid barn . the issu wa , the loss of the extrem of both feet . out of thi revel , part by part , at last came out the four act of the glad , and the one long , and as yet uncatastrophi fifth act of the grief of hi life ' s drama . He wa an old man , who , at the age of nearli sixti , had postponedli encount that thing in sorrow ' s technic call ruin . He had been an artisan of fame excel , and with plenti to do ; own a hous and garden ; embrac a youth , daughter - like , love wife , and three blith , ruddi children ; everi sunday went to a cheer - look church , plant in a grove . but one night , under cover of dark , and further conceal in a most cun disguis , a desper burglar slid into hi happi home , and rob them all of everyth . and darker yet to tell , the blacksmith himself did ignorantli conduct thi burglar into hi famili ' s heart . It wa the bottl conjuror ! upon the open of that fatal cork , forth flew the fiend , and shrivel up hi home . now , for prudent , most wise , and econom reason , the blacksmith ' s shop wa in the basement of hi dwell , but with a separ entranc to it ; so that alway had the young and love healthi wife listen with no unhappi nervous , but with vigor pleasur , to the stout ring of her young - arm old husband ' s hammer ; whose reverber , muffl by pass through the floor and wall , came up to her , not unsweetli , in her nurseri ; and so , to stout labor ' s iron lullabi , the blacksmith ' s infant were rock to slumber . Oh , woe on woe ! Oh , death , whi canst thou not sometim be time ? hadst thou taken thi old blacksmith to thyself ere hi full ruin came upon him , then had the young widow had a delici grief , and her orphan a truli vener , legendari sire to dream of in their after year ; and all of them a care - kill compet . but death pluck down some virtuou elder brother , on whose whistl daili toil sole hung the respons of some other famili , and left the wors than useless old man stand , till the hideou rot of life should make him easier to harvest . whi tell the whole ? the blow of the basement hammer everi day grew more and more between ; and each blow everi day grew fainter than the last ; the wife sat frozen at the window , with tearless eye , glitteringli gaze into the weep face of her children ; the bellow fell ; the forg choke up with cinder ; the hous wa sold ; the mother dive down into the long church - yard grass ; her children twice follow her thither ; and the houseless , familyless old man stagger off a vagabond in crape ; hi everi woe unreverenc ; hi grey head a scorn to flaxen curl ! death seem the onli desir sequel for a career like thi ; but death is onli a launch into the region of the strang untri ; it is but the first salut to the possibl of the immens remot , the wild , the wateri , the unshor ; therefor , to the death - long eye of such men , who still have left in them some interior compunct against suicid , doe the all - contribut and all - recept ocean alluringli spread forth hi whole plain of unimagin , take terror , and wonder , new - life adventur ; and from the heart of infinit pacif , the thousand mermaid sing to them -- '' come hither , broken - heart ; here is anoth life without the guilt of intermedi death ; here are wonder supernatur , without die for them . come hither ! buri thyself in a life which , to your now equal abhor and abhor , land world , is more oblivi than death . come hither ! put up thi graveston , too , within the churchyard , and come hither , till we marri thee ! '' hearken to these voic , east and west , by earli sunris , and by fall of eve , the blacksmith ' s soul respond , aye , I come ! and so perth went a - whale . chapter 113 the forg . with mat beard , and swath in a bristl shark - skin apron , about mid - day , perth wa stand between hi forg and anvil , the latter place upon an iron - wood log , with one hand hold a pike - head in the coal , and with the other at hi forg ' s lung , when captain ahab came along , carri in hi hand a small rusti - look leathern bag . while yet a littl distanc from the forg , moodi ahab paus ; till at last , perth , withdraw hi iron from the fire , began hammer it upon the anvil -- the red mass send off the spark in thick hover flight , some of which flew close to ahab . `` are these thi mother carey ' s chicken , perth ? they are alway fli in thi wake ; bird of good omen , too , but not to all ; -- look here , they burn ; but thou -- thou liv ' st among them without a scorch . '' `` becaus I am scorch all over , captain ahab , '' answer perth , rest for a moment on hi hammer ; `` I am past scorch ; not easili can ' st thou scorch a scar . '' `` well , well ; no more . thi shrunk voic sound too calmli , sane woeful to me . In no paradis myself , I am impati of all miseri in other that is not mad . thou should ' st go mad , blacksmith ; say , whi dost thou not go mad ? how can ' st thou endur without be mad ? Do the heaven yet hate thee , that thou can ' st not go mad ? -- what wert thou make there ? '' `` weld an old pike - head , sir ; there were seam and dent in it . '' `` and can ' st thou make it all smooth again , blacksmith , after such hard usag as it had ? '' `` I think so , sir . '' `` and I suppos thou can ' st smooth almost ani seam and dent ; never mind how hard the metal , blacksmith ? '' `` aye , sir , I think I can ; all seam and dent but one . '' `` look ye here , then , '' cri ahab , passion advanc , and lean with both hand on perth ' s shoulder ; `` look ye here -- here -- can ye smooth out a seam like thi , blacksmith , '' sweep one hand across hi rib brow ; `` if thou could ' st , blacksmith , glad enough would I lay my head upon thi anvil , and feel thi heaviest hammer between my eye . answer ! can ' st thou smooth thi seam ? '' `` Oh ! that is the one , sir ! said I not all seam and dent but one ? '' `` aye , blacksmith , it is the one ; aye , man , it is unsmooth ; for though thou onli see ' st it here in my flesh , it ha work down into the bone of my skull -- that is all wrinkl ! but , away with child ' s play ; no more gaff and pike to - day . look ye here ! '' jingl the leathern bag , as if it were full of gold coin . `` I , too , want a harpoon made ; one that a thousand yoke of fiend could not part , perth ; someth that will stick in a whale like hi own fin - bone . there ' s the stuff , '' fling the pouch upon the anvil . `` look ye , blacksmith , these are the gather nail - stubb of the steel shoe of race hors . '' `` hors - shoe stubb , sir ? whi , captain ahab , thou hast here , then , the best and stubbornest stuff we blacksmith ever work . '' `` I know it , old man ; these stubb will weld togeth like glue from the melt bone of murder . quick ! forg me the harpoon . and forg me first , twelv rod for it shank ; then wind , and twist , and hammer these twelv togeth like the yarn and strand of a tow - line . quick ! I ' ll blow the fire . '' when at last the twelv rod were made , ahab tri them , one by one , by spiral them , with hi own hand , round a long , heavi iron bolt . `` A flaw ! '' reject the last one . `` work that over again , perth . '' thi done , perth wa about to begin weld the twelv into one , when ahab stay hi hand , and said he would weld hi own iron . As , then , with regular , gasp hem , he hammer on the anvil , perth pass to him the glow rod , one after the other , and the hard press forg shoot up it intens straight flame , the parse pass silent , and bow over hi head toward the fire , seem invok some curs or some bless on the toil . but , as ahab look up , he slid asid . `` what ' s that bunch of lucif dodg about there for ? '' mutter stubb , look on from the forecastl . `` that parse smell fire like a fuse ; and smell of it himself , like a hot musket ' s powder - pan . '' At last the shank , in one complet rod , receiv it final heat ; and as perth , to temper it , plung it all hiss into the cask of water near by , the scald steam shot up into ahab ' s bent face . `` would ' st thou brand me , perth ? '' winc for a moment with the pain ; `` have I been but forg my own brand - iron , then ? '' `` pray god , not that ; yet I fear someth , captain ahab . Is not thi harpoon for the white whale ? '' `` for the white fiend ! but now for the barb ; thou must make them thyself , man . here are my razor -- the best of steel ; here , and make the barb sharp as the needl - sleet of the ici sea . '' for a moment , the old blacksmith eye the razor as though he would fain not use them . `` take them , man , I have no need for them ; for I now neither shave , sup , nor pray till -- but here -- to work ! '' fashion at last into an arrowi shape , and weld by perth to the shank , the steel soon point the end of the iron ; and as the blacksmith wa about give the barb their final heat , prior to temper them , he cri to ahab to place the water - cask near . `` No , no -- no water for that ; I want it of the true death - temper . ahoy , there ! tashtego , queequeg , daggoo ! what say ye , pagan ! will ye give me as much blood as will cover thi barb ? '' hold it high up . A cluster of dark nod repli , ye . three punctur were made in the heathen flesh , and the white whale ' s barb were then temper . `` ego non baptizo te in nomin patri , sed in nomin diaboli ! '' deliri howl ahab , as the malign iron scorchingli devour the baptism blood . now , muster the spare pole from below , and select one of hickori , with the bark still invest it , ahab fit the end to the socket of the iron . A coil of new tow - line wa then unwound , and some fathom of it taken to the windlass , and stretch to a great tension . press hi foot upon it , till the rope hum like a harp - string , then eagerli bend over it , and see no strand , ahab exclaim , `` good ! and now for the seiz . '' At one extrem the rope wa unstrand , and the separ spread yarn were all braid and woven round the socket of the harpoon ; the pole wa then driven hard up into the socket ; from the lower end the rope wa trace half - way along the pole ' s length , and firmli secur so , with intertwist of twine . thi done , pole , iron , and rope -- like the three fate -- remain insepar , and ahab moodili stalk away with the weapon ; the sound of hi ivori leg , and the sound of the hickori pole , both hollowli ring along everi plank . but ere he enter hi cabin , light , unnatur , half - banter , yet most piteou sound wa heard . Oh , pip ! thi wretch laugh , thi idl but unrest eye ; all thi strang mummeri not unmeaningli blend with the black tragedi of the melancholi ship , and mock it ! chapter 114 the gilder . penetr further and further into the heart of the japanes cruis ground , the pequod wa soon all astir in the fisheri . often , in mild , pleasant weather , for twelv , fifteen , eighteen , and twenti hour on the stretch , they were engag in the boat , steadili pull , or sail , or paddl after the whale , or for an interlud of sixti or seventi minut calmli await their upris ; though with but small success for their pain . At such time , under an abat sun ; afloat all day upon smooth , slow heav swell ; seat in hi boat , light as a birch cano ; and so sociabl mix with the soft wave themselv , that like hearth - stone cat they purr against the gunwal ; these are the time of dreami quietud , when behold the tranquil beauti and brillianc of the ocean ' s skin , one forget the tiger heart that pant beneath it ; and would not willingli rememb , that thi velvet paw but conceal a remorseless fang . these are the time , when in hi whale - boat the rover softli feel a certain filial , confid , land - like feel toward the sea ; that he regard it as so much floweri earth ; and the distant ship reveal onli the top of her mast , seem struggl forward , not through high roll wave , but through the tall grass of a roll prairi : as when the western emigr ' hors onli show their erect ear , while their hidden bodi wide wade through the amaz verdur . the long - drawn virgin vale ; the mild blue hill - side ; as over these there steal the hush , the hum ; you almost swear that play - weari children lie sleep in these solitud , in some glad may - time , when the flower of the wood are pluck . and all thi mix with your most mystic mood ; so that fact and fanci , half - way meet , interpenetr , and form one seamless whole . nor did such sooth scene , howev temporari , fail of at least as temporari an effect on ahab . but if these secret golden key did seem to open in him hi own secret golden treasuri , yet did hi breath upon them prove but tarnish . Oh , grassi glade ! oh , ever vernal endless landscap in the soul ; in ye , -- though long parch by the dead drought of the earthi life , -- in ye , men yet may roll , like young hors in new morn clover ; and for some few fleet moment , feel the cool dew of the life immort on them . would to god these bless calm would last . but the mingl , mingl thread of life are woven by warp and woof : calm cross by storm , a storm for everi calm . there is no steadi unretrac progress in thi life ; we do not advanc through fix gradat , and at the last one paus : -- through infanc ' s unconsci spell , boyhood ' s thoughtless faith , adolesc ' doubt ( the common doom ) , then sceptic , then disbelief , rest at last in manhood ' s ponder repos of If . but onc gone through , we trace the round again ; and are infant , boy , and men , and if etern . where lie the final harbor , whenc we unmoor no more ? In what rapt ether sail the world , of which the weariest will never weari ? where is the foundl ' s father hidden ? our soul are like those orphan whose unwed mother die in bear them : the secret of our patern lie in their grave , and we must there to learn it . and that same day , too , gaze far down from hi boat ' s side into that same golden sea , starbuck lowli murmur : -- `` loveli unfathom , as ever lover saw in hi young bride ' s eye ! -- tell me not of thi teeth - tier shark , and thi kidnap cannib way . let faith oust fact ; let fanci oust memori ; I look deep down and do believ . '' and stubb , fish - like , with sparkl scale , leap up in that same golden light : -- `` I am stubb , and stubb ha hi histori ; but here stubb take oath that he ha alway been jolli ! '' chapter 115 the pequod meet the bachelor . and jolli enough were the sight and the sound that came bear down befor the wind , some few week after ahab ' s harpoon had been weld . It wa a nantucket ship , the bachelor , which had just wedg in her last cask of oil , and bolt down her burst hatch ; and now , in glad holiday apparel , wa joyous , though somewhat vain - glorious , sail round among the wide - separ ship on the ground , previou to point her prow for home . the three men at her mast - head wore long streamer of narrow red bunt at their hat ; from the stern , a whale - boat wa suspend , bottom down ; and hang captiv from the bowsprit wa seen the long lower jaw of the last whale they had slain . signal , ensign , and jack of all colour were fli from her rig , on everi side . sideway lash in each of her three basket top were two barrel of sperm ; abov which , in her top - mast cross - tree , you saw slender breaker of the same preciou fluid ; and nail to her main truck wa a brazen lamp . As wa afterward learn , the bachelor had met with the most surpris success ; all the more wonder , for that while cruis in the same sea numer other vessel had gone entir month without secur a singl fish . not onli had barrel of beef and bread been given away to make room for the far more valuabl sperm , but addit supplement cask had been barter for , from the ship she had met ; and these were stow along the deck , and in the captain ' s and offic ' state - room . even the cabin tabl itself had been knock into kindl - wood ; and the cabin mess dine off the broad head of an oil - butt , lash down to the floor for a centrepiec . In the forecastl , the sailor had actual caulk and pitch their chest , and fill them ; it wa humor ad , that the cook had clap a head on hi largest boiler , and fill it ; that the steward had plug hi spare coffe - pot and fill it ; that the harpoon had head the socket of their iron and fill them ; that inde everyth wa fill with sperm , except the captain ' s pantaloon pocket , and those he reserv to thrust hi hand into , in self - complac testimoni of hi entir satisfact . As thi glad ship of good luck bore down upon the moodi pequod , the barbarian sound of enorm drum came from her forecastl ; and draw still nearer , a crowd of her men were seen stand round her huge tri - pot , which , cover with the parchment - like poke or stomach skin of the black fish , gave forth a loud roar to everi stroke of the clench hand of the crew . On the quarter - deck , the mate and harpoon were danc with the oliv - hu girl who had elop with them from the polynesian isl ; while suspend in an ornament boat , firmli secur aloft between the foremast and mainmast , three long island negro , with glitter fiddl - bow of whale ivori , were presid over the hilari jig . meanwhil , other of the ship ' s compani were tumultu busi at the masonri of the tri - work , from which the huge pot had been remov . you would have almost thought they were pull down the curs bastil , such wild cri they rais , as the now useless brick and mortar were be hurl into the sea . lord and master over all thi scene , the captain stood erect on the ship ' s elev quarter - deck , so that the whole rejoic drama wa full befor him , and seem mere contriv for hi own individu divers . and ahab , he too wa stand on hi quarter - deck , shaggi and black , with a stubborn gloom ; and as the two ship cross each other ' s wake -- one all jubil for thing pass , the other all forebod as to thing to come -- their two captain in themselv imperson the whole strike contrast of the scene . `` come aboard , come aboard ! '' cri the gay bachelor ' s command , lift a glass and a bottl in the air . `` hast seen the white whale ? '' grit ahab in repli . `` No ; onli heard of him ; but don ' t believ in him at all , '' said the other good - humoredli . `` come aboard ! '' `` thou art too damn jolli . sail on . hast lost ani men ? '' `` not enough to speak of -- two island , that ' s all ; -- but come aboard , old hearti , come along . I ' ll soon take that black from your brow . come along , will ye ( merri ' s the play ) ; a full ship and homeward - bound . '' `` how wondrou familiar is a fool ! '' mutter ahab ; then aloud , `` thou art a full ship and homeward bound , thou sayst ; well , then , call me an empti ship , and outward - bound . So go thi way , and I will mine . forward there ! set all sail , and keep her to the wind ! '' and thu , while the one ship went cheerili befor the breez , the other stubbornli fought against it ; and so the two vessel part ; the crew of the pequod look with grave , linger glanc toward the reced bachelor ; but the bachelor ' s men never heed their gaze for the live revelri they were in . and as ahab , lean over the taffrail , eye the homewardbound craft , he took from hi pocket a small vial of sand , and then look from the ship to the vial , seem therebi bring two remot associ togeth , for that vial wa fill with nantucket sound . chapter 116 the dy whale . not seldom in thi life , when , on the right side , fortun ' s favourit sail close by us , we , though all adroop befor , catch somewhat of the rush breez , and joy feel our bag sail fill out . So seem it with the pequod . for next day after encount the gay bachelor , whale were seen and four were slain ; and one of them by ahab . It wa far down the afternoon ; and when all the spear of the crimson fight were done : and float in the love sunset sea and sky , sun and whale both stilli die togeth ; then , such a sweet and such plaintiv , such inwreath orison curl up in that rosi air , that it almost seem as if far over from the deep green convent valley of the manilla isl , the spanish land - breez , wantonli turn sailor , had gone to sea , freight with these vesper hymn . sooth again , but onli sooth to deeper gloom , ahab , who had stern off from the whale , sat intent watch hi final wane from the now tranquil boat . for that strang spectacl observ in all sperm whale die -- the turn sunward of the head , and so expir -- that strang spectacl , beheld of such a placid even , somehow to ahab convey a wondrous unknown befor . `` He turn and turn him to it , -- how slowli , but how steadfastli , hi homag - render and invok brow , with hi last die motion . He too worship fire ; most faith , broad , baroni vassal of the sun ! -- Oh that these too - favour eye should see these too - favour sight . look ! here , far water - lock ; beyond all hum of human weal or woe ; in these most candid and imparti sea ; where to tradit no rock furnish tablet ; where for long chines age , the billow have still roll on speechless and unspoken to , as star that shine upon the niger ' s unknown sourc ; here , too , life die sunward full of faith ; but see ! no sooner dead , than death whirl round the corps , and it head some other way . `` Oh , thou dark hindoo half of natur , who of drown bone hast build thi separ throne somewher in the heart of these unverdur sea ; thou art an infidel , thou queen , and too truli speakest to me in the wide - slaughter typhoon , and the hush burial of it after calm . nor ha thi thi whale sunward turn hi die head , and then gone round again , without a lesson to me . `` Oh , trebli hoop and weld hip of power ! Oh , high aspir , rainbow jet ! -- that one strivest , thi one jettest all in vain ! In vain , oh whale , dost thou seek interced with yon all - quicken sun , that onli call forth life , but give it not again . yet dost thou , darker half , rock me with a prouder , if a darker faith . all thi unnam immingl float beneath me here ; I am buoy by breath of onc live thing , exhal as air , but water now . `` then hail , for ever hail , O sea , in whose etern toss the wild fowl find hi onli rest . born of earth , yet suckl by the sea ; though hill and valley mother me , ye billow are my foster - brother ! '' chapter 117 the whale watch . the four whale slain that even had die wide apart ; one , far to windward ; one , less distant , to leeward ; one ahead ; one astern . these last three were brought alongsid ere nightfal ; but the windward one could not be reach till morn ; and the boat that had kill it lay by it side all night ; and that boat wa ahab ' s . the waif - pole wa thrust upright into the dead whale ' s spout - hole ; and the lantern hang from it top , cast a troubl flicker glare upon the black , glossi back , and far out upon the midnight wave , which gentli chafe the whale ' s broad flank , like soft surf upon a beach . ahab and all hi boat ' s crew seem asleep but the parse ; who crouch in the bow , sat watch the shark , that spectral play round the whale , and tap the light cedar plank with their tail . A sound like the moan in squadron over asphaltit of unforgiven ghost of gomorrah , ran shudder through the air . start from hi slumber , ahab , face to face , saw the parse ; and hoop round by the gloom of the night they seem the last men in a flood world . `` I have dream it again , '' said he . `` Of the hears ? have I not said , old man , that neither hears nor coffin can be thine ? '' `` and who are hears that die on the sea ? '' `` but I said , old man , that ere thou couldst die on thi voyag , two hears must verili be seen by thee on the sea ; the first not made by mortal hand ; and the visibl wood of the last one must be grown in america . '' `` aye , aye ! a strang sight that , parse : -- a hears and it plume float over the ocean with the wave for the pall - bearer . Ha ! such a sight we shall not soon see . '' `` believ it or not , thou canst not die till it be seen , old man . '' `` and what wa that say about thyself ? '' `` though it come to the last , I shall still go befor thee thi pilot . '' `` and when thou art so gone befor -- if that ever befal -- then ere I can follow , thou must still appear to me , to pilot me still ? -- wa it not so ? well , then , did I believ all ye say , oh my pilot ! I have here two pledg that I shall yet slay mobi dick and surviv it . '' `` take anoth pledg , old man , '' said the parse , as hi eye light up like fire - fli in the gloom -- '' hemp onli can kill thee . '' `` the gallow , ye mean . -- I am immort then , on land and on sea , '' cri ahab , with a laugh of deris ; -- '' immort on land and on sea ! '' both were silent again , as one man . the grey dawn came on , and the slumber crew aros from the boat ' s bottom , and ere noon the dead whale wa brought to the ship . chapter 118 the quadrant . the season for the line at length drew near ; and everi day when ahab , come from hi cabin , cast hi eye aloft , the vigil helmsman would ostentati handl hi spoke , and the eager marin quickli run to the brace , and would stand there with all their eye central fix on the nail doubloon ; impati for the order to point the ship ' s prow for the equat . In good time the order came . It wa hard upon high noon ; and ahab , seat in the bow of hi high - hoist boat , wa about take hi wont daili observ of the sun to determin hi latitud . now , in that japanes sea , the day in summer are as freshet of effulg . that unblinkingli vivid japanes sun seem the blaze focu of the glassi ocean ' s immeasur burn - glass . the sky look lacquer ; cloud there are none ; the horizon float ; and thi naked of unreliev radianc is as the insuffer splendor of god ' s throne . well that ahab ' s quadrant wa furnish with colour glass , through which to take sight of that solar fire . So , swing hi seat form to the roll of the ship , and with hi astrolog - look instrument place to hi eye , he remain in that postur for some moment to catch the precis instant when the sun should gain it precis meridian . meantim while hi whole attent wa absorb , the parse wa kneel beneath him on the ship ' s deck , and with face thrown up like ahab ' s , wa eye the same sun with him ; onli the lid of hi eye half hood their orb , and hi wild face wa subdu to an earthli passionless . At length the desir observ wa taken ; and with hi pencil upon hi ivori leg , ahab soon calcul what hi latitud must be at that precis instant . then fall into a moment ' s reveri , he again look up toward the sun and murmur to himself : `` thou sea - mark ! thou high and mighti pilot ! thou tellest me truli where I AM -- but canst thou cast the least hint where I shall be ? Or canst thou tell where some other thing besid me is thi moment live ? where is mobi dick ? thi instant thou must be eye him . these eye of mine look into the veri eye that is even now behold him ; aye , and into the eye that is even now equal behold the object on the unknown , thither side of thee , thou sun ! '' then gaze at hi quadrant , and handl , one after the other , it numer cabalist contriv , he ponder again , and mutter : `` foolish toy ! babi ' playth of haughti admir , and commodor , and captain ; the world brag of thee , of thi cun and might ; but what after all canst thou do , but tell the poor , piti point , where thou thyself happenest to be on thi wide planet , and the hand that hold thee : no ! not one jot more ! thou canst not tell where one drop of water or one grain of sand will be to - morrow noon ; and yet with thi impot thou insultest the sun ! scienc ! curs thee , thou vain toy ; and curs be all the thing that cast man ' s eye aloft to that heaven , whose live vivid but scorch him , as these old eye are even now scorch with thi light , O sun ! level by natur to thi earth ' s horizon are the glanc of man ' s eye ; not shot from the crown of hi head , as if god had meant him to gaze on hi firmament . curs thee , thou quadrant ! '' dash it to the deck , `` no longer will I guid my earthli way by thee ; the level ship ' s compass , and the level deadreckon , by log and by line ; these shall conduct me , and show me my place on the sea . aye , '' light from the boat to the deck , `` thu I trampl on thee , thou paltri thing that feebli pointest on high ; thu I split and destroy thee ! '' As the frantic old man thu spoke and thu trampl with hi live and dead feet , a sneer triumph that seem meant for ahab , and a fatalist despair that seem meant for himself -- these pass over the mute , motionless parse ' s face . unobserv he rose and glide away ; while , awestruck by the aspect of their command , the seamen cluster togeth on the forecastl , till ahab , troubledli pace the deck , shout out -- '' To the brace ! Up helm ! -- squar in ! '' In an instant the yard swung round ; and as the ship half - wheel upon her heel , her three firm - seat grace mast erectli pois upon her long , rib hull , seem as the three horatii pirouet on one suffici steed . stand between the knight - head , starbuck watch the pequod ' s tumultu way , and ahab ' s also , as he went lurch along the deck . `` I have sat befor the dens coal fire and watch it all aglow , full of it torment flame life ; and I have seen it wane at last , down , down , to dumbest dust . old man of ocean ! of all thi fieri life of thine , what will at length remain but one littl heap of ash ! '' `` aye , '' cri stubb , `` but sea - coal ash -- mind ye that , Mr . starbuck -- sea - coal , not your common charcoal . well , well ; I heard ahab mutter , ' here some one thrust these card into these old hand of mine ; swear that I must play them , and no other . ' and damn me , ahab , but thou actest right ; live in the game , and die in it ! '' chapter 119 the candl . warmest clime but nurs the cruellest fang : the tiger of bengal crouch in spice grove of ceaseless verdur . ski the most effulg but basket the deadliest thunder : gorgeou cuba know tornado that never swept tame northern land . So , too , it is , that in these resplend japanes sea the marin encount the direst of all storm , the typhoon . It will sometim burst from out that cloudless sky , like an explod bomb upon a daze and sleepi town . toward even of that day , the pequod wa torn of her canva , and bare - pole wa left to fight a typhoon which had struck her directli ahead . when dark came on , sky and sea roar and split with the thunder , and blaze with the lightn , that show the disabl mast flutter here and there with the rag which the first furi of the tempest had left for it after sport . hold by a shroud , starbuck wa stand on the quarter - deck ; at everi flash of the lightn glanc aloft , to see what addit disast might have befallen the intric hamper there ; while stubb and flask were direct the men in the higher hoist and firmer lash of the boat . but all their pain seem naught . though lift to the veri top of the crane , the windward quarter boat ( ahab ' s ) did not escap . A great roll sea , dash high up against the reel ship ' s high teeter side , stove in the boat ' s bottom at the stern , and left it again , all drip through like a siev . `` bad work , bad work ! Mr . starbuck , '' said stubb , regard the wreck , `` but the sea will have it way . stubb , for one , can ' t fight it . you see , Mr . starbuck , a wave ha such a great long start befor it leap , all round the world it run , and then come the spring ! but as for me , all the start I have to meet it , is just across the deck here . but never mind ; it ' s all in fun : so the old song say ; '' -- ( sing . ) Oh ! jolli is the gale , and a joker is the whale , A ' flourishin ' hi tail , -- such a funni , sporti , gami , jesti , joki , hoki - poki lad , is the ocean , oh ! the scud all a flyin ' , that ' s hi flip onli foamin ' ; when he stir in the spicin ' , -- such a funni , sporti , gami , jesti , joki , hoki - poki lad , is the ocean , oh ! thunder split the ship , but he onli smack hi lip , A tastin ' of thi flip , -- such a funni , sporti , gami , jesti , joki , hoki - poki lad , is the ocean , oh ! `` avast stubb , '' cri starbuck , `` let the typhoon sing , and strike hi harp here in our rig ; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold thi peac . '' `` but I am not a brave man ; never said I wa a brave man ; I am a coward ; and I sing to keep up my spirit . and I tell you what it is , Mr . starbuck , there ' s no way to stop my sing in thi world but to cut my throat . and when that ' s done , ten to one I sing ye the doxolog for a wind - up . '' `` madman ! look through my eye if thou hast none of thine own . '' `` what ! how can you see better of a dark night than anybodi els , never mind how foolish ? '' `` here ! '' cri starbuck , seiz stubb by the shoulder , and point hi hand toward the weather bow , `` markest thou not that the gale come from the eastward , the veri cours ahab is to run for mobi dick ? the veri cours he swung to thi day noon ? now mark hi boat there ; where is that stove ? In the stern - sheet , man ; where he is wont to stand -- hi stand - point is stove , man ! now jump overboard , and sing away , if thou must ! `` I don ' t half understand ye : what ' s in the wind ? '' `` ye , ye , round the cape of good hope is the shortest way to nantucket , '' soliloqu starbuck suddenli , heedless of stubb ' s question . `` the gale that now hammer at us to stave us , we can turn it into a fair wind that will drive us toward home . yonder , to windward , all is black of doom ; but to leeward , homeward -- I see it lighten up there ; but not with the lightn . '' At that moment in one of the interv of profound dark , follow the flash , a voic wa heard at hi side ; and almost at the same instant a volley of thunder peal roll overhead . `` who ' s there ? '' `` old thunder ! '' said ahab , grope hi way along the bulwark to hi pivot - hole ; but suddenli find hi path made plain to him by elbow lanc of fire . now , as the lightn rod to a spire on shore is intend to carri off the peril fluid into the soil ; so the kindr rod which at sea some ship carri to each mast , is intend to conduct it into the water . but as thi conductor must descend to consider depth , that it end may avoid all contact with the hull ; and as moreov , if kept constantli tow there , it would be liabl to mani mishap , besid interf not a littl with some of the rig , and more or less imped the vessel ' s way in the water ; becaus of all thi , the lower part of a ship ' s lightn - rod are not alway overboard ; but are gener made in long slender link , so as to be the more readili haul up into the chain outsid , or thrown down into the sea , as occas may requir . `` the rod ! the rod ! '' cri starbuck to the crew , suddenli admonish to vigil by the vivid lightn that had just been dart flambeaux , to light ahab to hi post . `` are they overboard ? drop them over , fore and aft . quick ! '' `` avast ! '' cri ahab ; `` let ' s have fair play here , though we be the weaker side . yet I ' ll contribut to rais rod on the himmaleh and and , that all the world may be secur ; but out on privileg ! let them be , sir . '' `` look aloft ! '' cri starbuck . `` the corpus ! the corpus ! all the yard - arm were tip with a pallid fire ; and touch at each tri - point lightn - rod - end with three taper white flame , each of the three tall mast wa silent burn in that sulphur air , like three gigant wax taper befor an altar . `` blast the boat ! let it go ! '' cri stubb at thi instant , as a swash sea heav up under hi own littl craft , so that it gunwal violent jam hi hand , as he wa pass a lash . `` blast it ! '' -- but slip backward on the deck , hi uplift eye caught the flame ; and immedi shift hi tone he cri -- '' the corpus have merci on us all ! '' To sailor , oath are household word ; they will swear in the tranc of the calm , and in the teeth of the tempest ; they will imprec curs from the topsail - yard - arm , when most they teeter over to a seeth sea ; but in all my voyag , seldom have I heard a common oath when god ' s burn finger ha been laid on the ship ; when hi `` mene , mene , tekel upharsin `` ha been woven into the shroud and the cordag . while thi pallid wa burn aloft , few word were heard from the enchant crew ; who in one thick cluster stood on the forecastl , all their eye gleam in that pale phosphoresc , like a far away constel of star . reliev against the ghostli light , the gigant jet negro , daggoo , loom up to thrice hi real statur , and seem the black cloud from which the thunder had come . the part mouth of tashtego reveal hi shark - white teeth , which strang gleam as if they too had been tip by corpus ; while lit up by the preternatur light , queequeg ' s tattoo burn like satan blue flame on hi bodi . the tableau all wane at last with the pallid aloft ; and onc more the pequod and everi soul on her deck were wrap in a pall . A moment or two pass , when starbuck , go forward , push against some one . It wa stubb . `` what thinkest thou now , man ; I heard thi cri ; it wa not the same in the song . '' `` No , no , it wasn ' t ; I said the corpus have merci on us all ; and I hope they will , still . but do they onli have merci on long face ? -- have they no bowel for a laugh ? and look ye , Mr . starbuck -- but it ' s too dark to look . hear me , then : I take that mast - head flame we saw for a sign of good luck ; for those mast are root in a hold that is go to be chock a ' block with sperm - oil , d ' ye see ; and so , all that sperm will work up into the mast , like sap in a tree . ye , our three mast will yet be as three spermaceti candl -- that ' s the good promis we saw . '' At that moment starbuck caught sight of stubb ' s face slowli begin to glimmer into sight . glanc upward , he cri : `` see ! see ! '' and onc more the high taper flame were beheld with what seem redoubl supernatur in their pallor . `` the corpus have merci on us all , '' cri stubb , again . At the base of the mainmast , full beneath the doubloon and the flame , the parse wa kneel in ahab ' s front , but with hi head bow away from him ; while near by , from the arch and overhang rig , where they had just been engag secur a spar , a number of the seamen , arrest by the glare , now coher togeth , and hung pendul , like a knot of numb wasp from a droop , orchard twig . In variou enchant attitud , like the stand , or step , or run skeleton in herculaneum , other remain root to the deck ; but all their eye upcast . `` aye , aye , men ! '' cri ahab . `` look up at it ; mark it well ; the white flame but light the way to the white whale ! hand me those mainmast link there ; I would fain feel thi puls , and let mine beat against it ; blood against fire ! So . '' then turn -- the last link held fast in hi left hand , he put hi foot upon the parse ; and with fix upward eye , and high - flung right arm , he stood erect befor the lofti tri - point triniti of flame . `` Oh ! thou clear spirit of clear fire , whom on these sea I as persian onc did worship , till in the sacrament act so burn by thee , that to thi hour I bear the scar ; I now know thee , thou clear spirit , and I now know that thi right worship is defianc . To neither love nor rever wilt thou be kind ; and e ' en for hate thou canst but kill ; and all are kill . No fearless fool now front thee . I own thi speechless , placeless power ; but to the last gasp of my earthquak life will disput it uncondit , unintegr masteri in me . In the midst of the personifi imperson , a person stand here . though but a point at best ; whenceso ' er I came ; whereso ' er I go ; yet while I earthli live , the queenli person live in me , and feel her royal right . but war is pain , and hate is woe . come in thi lowest form of love , and I will kneel and kiss thee ; but at thi highest , come as mere supern power ; and though thou launchest navi of full - freight world , there ' s that in here that still remain indiffer . Oh , thou clear spirit , of thi fire thou madest me , and like a true child of fire , I breath it back to thee . '' [ sudden , repeat flash OF lightn ; the nine flame leap lengthwis TO thrice their previou height ; ahab , with the rest , close hi eye , hi right hand press hard upon them . ] `` I own thi speechless , placeless power ; said I not so ? nor wa it wrung from me ; nor do I now drop these link . thou canst blind ; but I can then grope . thou canst consum ; but I can then be ash . take the homag of these poor eye , and shutter - hand . I would not take it . the lightn flash through my skull ; mine eye - ball ach and ach ; my whole beaten brain seem as behead , and roll on some stun ground . Oh , oh ! yet blindfold , yet will I talk to thee . light though thou be , thou leapest out of dark ; but I am dark leap out of light , leap out of thee ! the javelin ceas ; open eye ; see , or not ? there burn the flame ! Oh , thou magnanim ! now I do glori in my genealog . but thou art but my fieri father ; my sweet mother , I know not . Oh , cruel ! what hast thou done with her ? there lie my puzzl ; but thine is greater . thou knowest not how came ye , henc callest thyself unbegotten ; certainli knowest not thi begin , henc callest thyself unbegun . I know that of me , which thou knowest not of thyself , oh , thou omnipot . there is some unsuffus thing beyond thee , thou clear spirit , to whom all thi etern is but time , all thi creativ mechan . through thee , thi flame self , my scorch eye do dimli see it . Oh , thou foundl fire , thou hermit immemori , thou too hast thi incommunic riddl , thi unparticip grief . here again with haughti agoni , I read my sire . leap ! leap up , and lick the sky ! I leap with thee ; I burn with thee ; would fain be weld with thee ; defyingli I worship thee ! '' `` the boat ! the boat ! '' cri starbuck , `` look at thi boat , old man ! '' ahab ' s harpoon , the one forg at perth ' s fire , remain firmli lash in it conspicu crotch , so that it project beyond hi whale - boat ' s bow ; but the sea that had stove it bottom had caus the loos leather sheath to drop off ; and from the keen steel barb there now came a level flame of pale , fork fire . As the silent harpoon burn there like a serpent ' s tongu , starbuck grasp ahab by the arm -- '' god , god is against thee , old man ; forbear ! ' ti an ill voyag ! ill begun , ill continu ; let me squar the yard , while we may , old man , and make a fair wind of it homeward , to go on a better voyag than thi . '' overhear starbuck , the panic - stricken crew instantli ran to the brace -- though not a sail wa left aloft . for the moment all the aghast mate ' s thought seem their ; they rais a half mutin cri . but dash the rattl lightn link to the deck , and snatch the burn harpoon , ahab wave it like a torch among them ; swear to transfix with it the first sailor that but cast loos a rope ' s end . petrifi by hi aspect , and still more shrink from the fieri dart that he held , the men fell back in dismay , and ahab again spoke : -- `` all your oath to hunt the white whale are as bind as mine ; and heart , soul , and bodi , lung and life , old ahab is bound . and that ye may know to what tune thi heart beat ; look ye here ; thu I blow out the last fear ! '' and with one blast of hi breath he extinguish the flame . As in the hurrican that sweep the plain , men fli the neighborhood of some lone , gigant elm , whose veri height and strength but render it so much the more unsaf , becaus so much the more a mark for thunderbolt ; so at those last word of ahab ' s mani of the marin did run from him in a terror of dismay . chapter 120 the deck toward the end of the first night watch . ahab stand BY the helm . starbuck approach him . We must send down the main - top - sail yard , sir . the band is work loos and the lee lift is half - strand . shall I strike it , sir ? '' `` strike noth ; lash it . If I had sky - sail pole , I ' d sway them up now . '' `` sir ! -- in god ' s name ! -- sir ? '' `` well . '' `` the anchor are work , sir . shall I get them inboard ? '' `` strike noth , and stir noth , but lash everyth . the wind rise , but it ha not got up to my tabl - land yet . quick , and see to it . -- By mast and keel ! he take me for the hunch - back skipper of some coast smack . send down my main - top - sail yard ! Ho , gluepot ! loftiest truck were made for wildest wind , and thi brain - truck of mine now sail amid the cloud - scud . shall I strike that ? Oh , none but coward send down their brain - truck in tempest time . what a hooroosh aloft there ! I would e ' en take it for sublim , did I not know that the colic is a noisi maladi . Oh , take medicin , take medicin ! '' chapter 121 midnight . -- the forecastl bulwark . stubb and flask mount ON them , and pass addit lash over the anchor there hang . No , stubb ; you may pound that knot there as much as you pleas , but you will never pound into me what you were just now say . and how long ago is it sinc you said the veri contrari ? didn ' t you onc say that whatev ship ahab sail in , that ship should pay someth extra on it insur polici , just as though it were load with powder barrel aft and box of lucif forward ? stop , now ; didn ' t you say so ? '' `` well , suppos I did ? what then ? I ' ve part chang my flesh sinc that time , whi not my mind ? besid , suppos we are load with powder barrel aft and lucif forward ; how the devil could the lucif get afir in thi drench spray here ? whi , my littl man , you have pretti red hair , but you couldn ' t get afir now . shake yourself ; you ' re aquariu , or the water - bearer , flask ; might fill pitcher at your coat collar . don ' t you see , then , that for these extra risk the marin insur compani have extra guarante ? here are hydrant , flask . but hark , again , and I ' ll answer ye the other thing . first take your leg off from the crown of the anchor here , though , so I can pass the rope ; now listen . what ' s the mighti differ between hold a mast ' s lightn - rod in the storm , and stand close by a mast that hasn ' t got ani lightn - rod at all in a storm ? don ' t you see , you timber - head , that no harm can come to the holder of the rod , unless the mast is first struck ? what are you talk about , then ? not one ship in a hundr carri rod , and ahab , -- aye , man , and all of us , -- were in no more danger then , in my poor opinion , than all the crew in ten thousand ship now sail the sea . whi , you king - post , you , I suppos you would have everi man in the world go about with a small lightn - rod run up the corner of hi hat , like a militia offic ' s skewer feather , and trail behind like hi sash . whi don ' t ye be sensibl , flask ? it ' s easi to be sensibl ; whi don ' t ye , then ? ani man with half an eye can be sensibl . '' `` I don ' t know that , stubb . you sometim find it rather hard . '' `` ye , when a fellow ' s soak through , it ' s hard to be sensibl , that ' s a fact . and I am about drench with thi spray . never mind ; catch the turn there , and pass it . seem to me we are lash down these anchor now as if they were never go to be use again . ty these two anchor here , flask , seem like tie a man ' s hand behind him . and what big gener hand they are , to be sure . these are your iron fist , hey ? what a hold they have , too ! I wonder , flask , whether the world is anchor anywher ; if she is , she swing with an uncommon long cabl , though . there , hammer that knot down , and we ' ve done . So ; next to touch land , light on deck is the most satisfactori . I say , just wring out my jacket skirt , will ye ? thank ye . they laugh at long - tog so , flask ; but seem to me , a long tail coat ought alway to be worn in all storm afloat . the tail taper down that way , serv to carri off the water , d ' ye see . same with cock hat ; the cock form gabl - end eav - trough , flask . No more monkey - jacket and tarpaulin for me ; I must mount a swallow - tail , and drive down a beaver ; so . halloa ! whew ! there goe my tarpaulin overboard ; lord , lord , that the wind that come from heaven should be so unmannerli ! thi is a nasti night , lad . '' chapter 122 midnight aloft . -- thunder and lightn . the main - top - sail yard . -- tashtego pass new lash around IT . `` Um , um , um . stop that thunder ! plenti too much thunder up here . what ' s the use of thunder ? Um , um , um . We don ' t want thunder ; we want rum ; give us a glass of rum . Um , um , um ! '' chapter 123 the musket . dure the most violent shock of the typhoon , the man at the pequod ' s jaw - bone tiller had sever time been reelingli hurl to the deck by it spasmod motion , even though prevent tackl had been attach to it -- for they were slack -- becaus some play to the tiller wa indispens . In a sever gale like thi , while the ship is but a toss shuttlecock to the blast , it is by no mean uncommon to see the needl in the compass , at interv , go round and round . It wa thu with the pequod ' s ; at almost everi shock the helmsman had not fail to notic the whirl veloc with which they revolv upon the card ; it is a sight that hardli anyon can behold without some sort of unwont emot . some hour after midnight , the typhoon abat so much , that through the strenuou exert of starbuck and stubb -- one engag forward and the other aft -- the shiver remnant of the jib and fore and main - top - sail were cut adrift from the spar , and went eddi away to leeward , like the feather of an albatross , which sometim are cast to the wind when that storm - toss bird is on the wing . the three correspond new sail were now bent and reef , and a storm - trysail wa set further aft ; so that the ship soon went through the water with some precis again ; and the cours -- for the present , east - south - east -- which he wa to steer , if practic , wa onc more given to the helmsman . for dure the violenc of the gale , he had onli steer accord to it vicissitud . but as he wa now bring the ship as near her cours as possibl , watch the compass meanwhil , lo ! a good sign ! the wind seem come round astern ; aye , the foul breez becam fair ! instantli the yard were squar , to the live song of `` HO ! the fair wind ! OH - YE - HO , cheerli men ! '' the crew sing for joy , that so promis an event should so soon have falsifi the evil portent preced it . In complianc with the stand order of hi command -- to report immedi , and at ani one of the twenti - four hour , ani decid chang in the affair of the deck , -- starbuck had no sooner trim the yard to the breez -- howev reluctantli and gloomili , -- than he mechan went below to appris captain ahab of the circumst . ere knock at hi state - room , he involuntarili paus befor it a moment . the cabin lamp -- take long swing thi way and that -- wa burn fit , and cast fit shadow upon the old man ' s bolt door , -- a thin one , with fix blind insert , in place of upper panel . the isol subterran of the cabin made a certain hum silenc to reign there , though it wa hoop round by all the roar of the element . the load musket in the rack were shiningli reveal , as they stood upright against the forward bulkhead . starbuck wa an honest , upright man ; but out of starbuck ' s heart , at that instant when he saw the musket , there strang evolv an evil thought ; but so blent with it neutral or good accompani that for the instant he hardli knew it for itself . `` He would have shot me onc , '' he murmur , `` ye , there ' s the veri musket that he point at me ; -- that one with the stud stock ; let me touch it -- lift it . strang , that I , who have handl so mani deadli lanc , strang , that I should shake so now . load ? I must see . aye , aye ; and powder in the pan ; -- that ' s not good . best spill it ? -- wait . I ' ll cure myself of thi . I ' ll hold the musket boldli while I think . -- I come to report a fair wind to him . but how fair ? fair for death and doom , -- that ' S fair for mobi dick . It ' s a fair wind that ' s onli fair for that accurs fish . -- the veri tube he point at me ! -- the veri one ; thi one -- I hold it here ; he would have kill me with the veri thing I handl now . -- aye and he would fain kill all hi crew . doe he not say he will not strike hi spar to ani gale ? ha he not dash hi heavenli quadrant ? and in these same peril sea , grope he not hi way by mere dead reckon of the error - abound log ? and in thi veri typhoon , did he not swear that he would have no lightn - rod ? but shall thi craze old man be tame suffer to drag a whole ship ' s compani down to doom with him ? -- ye , it would make him the wil murder of thirti men and more , if thi ship come to ani deadli harm ; and come to deadli harm , my soul swear thi ship will , if ahab have hi way . If , then , he were thi instant -- put asid , that crime would not be hi . Ha ! is he mutter in hi sleep ? ye , just there , -- in there , he ' s sleep . sleep ? aye , but still aliv , and soon awak again . I can ' t withstand thee , then , old man . not reason ; not remonstr ; not entreati wilt thou hearken to ; all thi thou scornest . flat obedi to thi own flat command , thi is all thou breathest . aye , and say ' st the men have vow ' d thi vow ; say ' st all of us are ahab . great god forbid ! -- but is there no other way ? no law way ? -- make him a prison to be taken home ? what ! hope to wrest thi old man ' s live power from hi own live hand ? onli a fool would tri it . say he were pinion even ; knot all over with rope and hawser ; chain down to ring - bolt on thi cabin floor ; he would be more hideou than a cage tiger , then . I could not endur the sight ; could not possibl fli hi howl ; all comfort , sleep itself , inestim reason would leav me on the long intoler voyag . what , then , remain ? the land is hundr of leagu away , and lock japan the nearest . I stand alon here upon an open sea , with two ocean and a whole contin between me and law . -- aye , aye , ' ti so . -- Is heaven a murder when it lightn strike a would - be murder in hi bed , tinder sheet and skin togeth ? -- and would I be a murder , then , if `` -- and slowli , stealthili , and half sideway look , he place the load musket ' s end against the door . `` On thi level , ahab ' s hammock swing within ; hi head thi way . A touch , and starbuck may surviv to hug hi wife and child again . -- Oh mari ! mari ! -- boy ! boy ! boy ! -- but if I wake thee not to death , old man , who can tell to what unsound deep starbuck ' s bodi thi day week may sink , with all the crew ! great god , where art thou ? shall I ? shall I ? -- the wind ha gone down and shift , sir ; the fore and main topsail are reef and set ; she head her cours . '' `` stern all ! Oh mobi dick , I clutch thi heart at last ! '' such were the sound that now came hurtl from out the old man ' s torment sleep , as if starbuck ' s voic had caus the long dumb dream to speak . the yet level musket shook like a drunkard ' s arm against the panel ; starbuck seem wrestl with an angel ; but turn from the door , he place the death - tube in it rack , and left the place . `` He ' s too sound asleep , Mr . stubb ; go thou down , and wake him , and tell him . I must see to the deck here . thou know ' st what to say . '' chapter 124 the needl . next morn the not - yet - subsid sea roll in long slow billow of mighti bulk , and strive in the pequod ' s gurgl track , push her on like giant ' palm outspread . the strong , unstagg breez abound so , that sky and air seem vast outbelli sail ; the whole world boom befor the wind . muffl in the full morn light , the invis sun wa onli known by the spread intens of hi place ; where hi bayonet ray move on in stack . emblazon , as of crown babylonian king and queen , reign over everyth . the sea wa as a crucibl of molten gold , that bubblingli leap with light and heat . long maintain an enchant silenc , ahab stood apart ; and everi time the teter ship loweringli pitch down her bowsprit , he turn to eye the bright sun ' s ray produc ahead ; and when she profoundli settl by the stern , he turn behind , and saw the sun ' s rearward place , and how the same yellow ray were blend with hi undevi wake . `` Ha , ha , my ship ! thou mightest well be taken now for the sea - chariot of the sun . Ho , ho ! all ye nation befor my prow , I bring the sun to ye ! yoke on the further billow ; hallo ! a tandem , I drive the sea ! '' but suddenli rein back by some counter thought , he hurri toward the helm , huskili demand how the ship wa head . `` east - sou - east , sir , '' said the frighten steersman . `` thou liest ! '' smite him with hi clench fist . `` head east at thi hour in the morn , and the sun astern ? '' upon thi everi soul wa confound ; for the phenomenon just then observ by ahab had unaccount escap everi one els ; but it veri blind palpabl must have been the caus . thrust hi head half way into the binnacl , ahab caught one glimps of the compass ; hi uplift arm slowli fell ; for a moment he almost seem to stagger . stand behind him starbuck look , and lo ! the two compass point east , and the pequod wa as infal go west . but ere the first wild alarm could get out abroad among the crew , the old man with a rigid laugh exclaim , `` I have it ! It ha happen befor . Mr . starbuck , last night ' s thunder turn our compass -- that ' s all . thou hast befor now heard of such a thing , I take it . '' `` aye ; but never befor ha it happen to me , sir , '' said the pale mate , gloomili . here , it must need be said , that accid like thi have in more than one case occur to ship in violent storm . the magnet energi , as develop in the marin ' s needl , is , as all know , essenti one with the electr beheld in heaven ; henc it is not to be much marvel at , that such thing should be . instanc where the lightn ha actual struck the vessel , so as to smite down some of the spar and rig , the effect upon the needl ha at time been still more fatal ; all it loadston virtu be annihil , so that the befor magnet steel wa of no more use than an old wife ' s knit needl . but in either case , the needl never again , of itself , recov the origin virtu thu mar or lost ; and if the binnacl compass be affect , the same fate reach all the other that may be in the ship ; even were the lowermost one insert into the kelson . deliber stand befor the binnacl , and eye the transpoint compass , the old man , with the sharp of hi extend hand , now took the precis bear of the sun , and satisfi that the needl were exactli invert , shout out hi order for the ship ' s cours to be chang accordingli . the yard were hard up ; and onc more the pequod thrust her undaunt bow into the oppos wind , for the suppos fair one had onli been juggl her . meanwhil , whatev were hi own secret thought , starbuck said noth , but quietli he issu all requisit order ; while stubb and flask -- who in some small degre seem then to be share hi feel -- likewis unmurmuringli acquiesc . As for the men , though some of them lowli rumbl , their fear of ahab wa greater than their fear of fate . but as ever befor , the pagan harpoon remain almost wholli unimpress ; or if impress , it wa onli with a certain magnet shot into their congeni heart from inflex ahab ' s . for a space the old man walk the deck in roll reveri . but chanc to slip with hi ivori heel , he saw the crush copper sight - tube of the quadrant he had the day befor dash to the deck . `` thou poor , proud heaven - gazer and sun ' s pilot ! yesterday I wreck thee , and to - day the compass would fain have wreck me . So , so . but ahab is lord over the level loadston yet . Mr . starbuck -- a lanc without a pole ; a top - maul , and the smallest of the sail - maker ' s needl . quick ! '' accessori , perhap , to the impuls dictat the thing he wa now about to do , were certain prudenti motiv , whose object might have been to reviv the spirit of hi crew by a stroke of hi subtil skill , in a matter so wondrou as that of the invert compass . besid , the old man well knew that to steer by transpoint needl , though clumsili practic , wa not a thing to be pass over by superstiti sailor , without some shudder and evil portent . `` men , '' said he , steadili turn upon the crew , as the mate hand him the thing he had demand , `` my men , the thunder turn old ahab ' s needl ; but out of thi bit of steel ahab can make one of hi own , that will point as true as ani . '' abash glanc of servil wonder were exchang by the sailor , as thi wa said ; and with fascin eye they await whatev magic might follow . but starbuck look away . with a blow from the top - maul ahab knock off the steel head of the lanc , and then hand to the mate the long iron rod remain , bade him hold it upright , without it touch the deck . then , with the maul , after repeatedli smite the upper end of thi iron rod , he place the blunt needl endwis on the top of it , and less strongli hammer that , sever time , the mate still hold the rod as befor . then go through some small strang motion with it -- whether indispens to the magnet of the steel , or mere intend to augment the awe of the crew , is uncertain -- he call for linen thread ; and move to the binnacl , slip out the two revers needl there , and horizont suspend the sail - needl by it middl , over one of the compass - card . At first , the steel went round and round , quiver and vibrat at either end ; but at last it settl to it place , when ahab , who had been intent watch for thi result , step frankli back from the binnacl , and point hi stretch arm toward it , exclaim , -- '' look ye , for yourselv , if ahab be not lord of the level loadston ! the sun is east , and that compass swear it ! '' one after anoth they peer in , for noth but their own eye could persuad such ignor as their , and one after anoth they slunk away . In hi fieri eye of scorn and triumph , you then saw ahab in all hi fatal pride . chapter 125 the log and line . while now the fate pequod had been so long afloat thi voyag , the log and line had but veri seldom been in use . owe to a confid relianc upon other mean of determin the vessel ' s place , some merchantmen , and mani whalemen , especi when cruis , wholli neglect to heav the log ; though at the same time , and frequent more for form ' s sake than anyth els , regularli put down upon the customari slate the cours steer by the ship , as well as the presum averag rate of progress everi hour . It had been thu with the pequod . the wooden reel and angular log attach hung , long untouch , just beneath the rail of the after bulwark . rain and spray had damp it ; sun and wind had warp it ; all the element had combin to rot a thing that hung so idli . but heedless of all thi , hi mood seiz ahab , as he happen to glanc upon the reel , not mani hour after the magnet scene , and he rememb how hi quadrant wa no more , and recal hi frantic oath about the level log and line . the ship wa sail plungingli ; astern the billow roll in riot . `` forward , there ! heav the log ! '' two seamen came . the golden - hu tahitian and the grizzli manxman . `` take the reel , one of ye , I ' ll heav . '' they went toward the extrem stern , on the ship ' s lee side , where the deck , with the obliqu energi of the wind , wa now almost dip into the creami , sidelong - rush sea . the manxman took the reel , and hold it high up , by the project handl - end of the spindl , round which the spool of line revolv , so stood with the angular log hang downward , till ahab advanc to him . ahab stood befor him , and wa lightli unwind some thirti or forti turn to form a preliminari hand - coil to toss overboard , when the old manxman , who wa intent eye both him and the line , made bold to speak . `` sir , I mistrust it ; thi line look far gone , long heat and wet have spoil it . '' `` ' twill hold , old gentleman . long heat and wet , have they spoil thee ? thou seem ' st to hold . Or , truer perhap , life hold thee ; not thou it . '' `` I hold the spool , sir . but just as my captain say . with these grey hair of mine ' ti not worth while disput , ' special with a superior , who ' ll ne ' er confess . '' `` what ' s that ? there now ' s a patch professor in queen natur ' s granit - found colleg ; but methink he ' s too subservi . where wert thou born ? '' `` In the littl rocki isl of man , sir . '' `` excel ! thou ' st hit the world by that . '' `` I know not , sir , but I wa born there . '' `` In the isl of man , hey ? well , the other way , it ' s good . here ' s a man from man ; a man born in onc independ man , and now unman of man ; which is suck in -- by what ? Up with the reel ! the dead , blind wall butt all inquir head at last . Up with it ! So . '' the log wa heav . the loos coil rapidli straighten out in a long drag line astern , and then , instantli , the reel began to whirl . In turn , jerkingli rais and lower by the roll billow , the tow resist of the log caus the old reelman to stagger strang . `` hold hard ! '' snap ! the overstrain line sag down in one long festoon ; the tug log wa gone . `` I crush the quadrant , the thunder turn the needl , and now the mad sea part the log - line . but ahab can mend all . haul in here , tahitian ; reel up , manxman . and look ye , let the carpent make anoth log , and mend thou the line . see to it . '' `` there he goe now ; to him noth ' s happen ; but to me , the skewer seem loosen out of the middl of the world . haul in , haul in , tahitian ! these line run whole , and whirl out : come in broken , and drag slow . Ha , pip ? come to help ; eh , pip ? '' `` pip ? whom call ye pip ? pip jump from the whale - boat . pip ' s miss . let ' s see now if ye haven ' t fish him up here , fisherman . It drag hard ; I guess he ' s hold on . jerk him , tahiti ! jerk him off ; we haul in no coward here . Ho ! there ' s hi arm just break water . A hatchet ! a hatchet ! cut it off -- we haul in no coward here . captain ahab ! sir , sir ! here ' s pip , tri to get on board again . '' `` peac , thou crazi loon , '' cri the manxman , seiz him by the arm . `` away from the quarter - deck ! '' `` the greater idiot ever scold the lesser , '' mutter ahab , advanc . `` hand off from that holi ! where sayest thou pip wa , boy ? `` astern there , sir , astern ! Lo ! lo ! '' `` and who art thou , boy ? I see not my reflect in the vacant pupil of thi eye . Oh god ! that man should be a thing for immort soul to siev through ! who art thou , boy ? '' `` bell - boy , sir ; ship ' s - crier ; ding , dong , ding ! pip ! pip ! pip ! one hundr pound of clay reward for pip ; five feet high -- look cowardli -- quickest known by that ! ding , dong , ding ! who ' s seen pip the coward ? '' `` there can be no heart abov the snow - line . Oh , ye frozen heaven ! look down here . Ye did beget thi luckless child , and have abandon him , ye creativ libertin . here , boy ; ahab ' s cabin shall be pip ' s home henceforth , while ahab live . thou touchest my inmost centr , boy ; thou art tie to me by cord woven of my heart - string . come , let ' s down . '' `` what ' s thi ? here ' s velvet shark - skin , '' intent gaze at ahab ' s hand , and feel it . `` Ah , now , had poor pip but felt so kind a thing as thi , perhap he had ne ' er been lost ! thi seem to me , sir , as a man - rope ; someth that weak soul may hold by . Oh , sir , let old perth now come and rivet these two hand togeth ; the black one with the white , for I will not let thi go . '' `` Oh , boy , nor will I thee , unless I should therebi drag thee to wors horror than are here . come , then , to my cabin . Lo ! ye believ in god all good , and in man all ill , lo you ! see the omnisci god oblivi of suffer man ; and man , though idiot , and know not what he doe , yet full of the sweet thing of love and gratitud . come ! I feel prouder lead thee by thi black hand , than though I grasp an emperor ' s ! '' `` there go two daft one now , '' mutter the old manxman . `` one daft with strength , the other daft with weak . but here ' s the end of the rotten line -- all drip , too . mend it , eh ? I think we had best have a new line altogeth . I ' ll see Mr . stubb about it . '' chapter 126 the life - buoy . steer now south - eastward by ahab ' s level steel , and her progress sole determin by ahab ' s level log and line ; the pequod held on her path toward the equat . make so long a passag through such unfrequ water , descri no ship , and ere long , sideway impel by unvari trade wind , over wave monoton mild ; all these seem the strang calm thing prelud some riotou and desper scene . At last , when the ship drew near to the outskirt , as it were , of the equatori fish - ground , and in the deep dark that goe befor the dawn , wa sail by a cluster of rocki islet ; the watch -- then head by flask -- wa startl by a cri so plaintiv wild and unearthli -- like half - articul wail of the ghost of all herod ' s murder innoc -- that one and all , they start from their reveri , and for the space of some moment stood , or sat , or lean all transfixedli listen , like the carv roman slave , while that wild cri remain within hear . the christian or civil part of the crew said it wa mermaid , and shudder ; but the pagan harpoon remain unappal . yet the grey manxman -- the oldest marin of all -- declar that the wild thrill sound that were heard , were the voic of newli drown men in the sea . below in hi hammock , ahab did not hear of thi till grey dawn , when he came to the deck ; it wa then recount to him by flask , not unaccompani with hint dark mean . He hollowli laugh , and thu explain the wonder . those rocki island the ship had pass were the resort of great number of seal , and some young seal that had lost their dam , or some dam that had lost their cub , must have risen nigh the ship and kept compani with her , cri and sob with their human sort of wail . but thi onli the more affect some of them , becaus most marin cherish a veri superstiti feel about seal , aris not onli from their peculiar tone when in distress , but also from the human look of their round head and semi - intellig face , seen peeringli upris from the water alongsid . In the sea , under certain circumst , seal have more than onc been mistaken for men . but the bode of the crew were destin to receiv a most plausibl confirm in the fate of one of their number that morn . At sun - rise thi man went from hi hammock to hi mast - head at the fore ; and whether it wa that he wa not yet half wake from hi sleep ( for sailor sometim go aloft in a transit state ) , whether it wa thu with the man , there is now no tell ; but , be that as it may , he had not been long at hi perch , when a cri wa heard -- a cri and a rush -- and look up , they saw a fall phantom in the air ; and look down , a littl toss heap of white bubbl in the blue of the sea . the life - buoy -- a long slender cask -- wa drop from the stern , where it alway hung obedi to a cun spring ; but no hand rose to seiz it , and the sun have long beat upon thi cask it had shrunken , so that it slowli fill , and that parch wood also fill at it everi pore ; and the stud iron - bound cask follow the sailor to the bottom , as if to yield him hi pillow , though in sooth but a hard one . and thu the first man of the pequod that mount the mast to look out for the white whale , on the white whale ' s own peculiar ground ; that man wa swallow up in the deep . but few , perhap , thought of that at the time . inde , in some sort , they were not griev at thi event , at least as a portent ; for they regard it , not as a foreshadow of evil in the futur , but as the fulfil of an evil alreadi presag . they declar that now they knew the reason of those wild shriek they had heard the night befor . but again the old manxman said nay . the lost life - buoy wa now to be replac ; starbuck wa direct to see to it ; but as no cask of suffici light could be found , and as in the feverish eager of what seem the approach crisi of the voyag , all hand were impati of ani toil but what wa directli connect with it final end , whatev that might prove to be ; therefor , they were go to leav the ship ' s stern unprovid with a buoy , when by certain strang sign and inuendo queequeg hint a hint concern hi coffin . `` A life - buoy of a coffin ! '' cri starbuck , start . `` rather queer , that , I should say , '' said stubb . `` It will make a good enough one , '' said flask , `` the carpent here can arrang it easili . '' `` bring it up ; there ' s noth els for it , '' said starbuck , after a melancholi paus . `` rig it , carpent ; do not look at me so -- the coffin , I mean . dost thou hear me ? rig it . '' `` and shall I nail down the lid , sir ? '' move hi hand as with a hammer . `` aye . '' `` and shall I caulk the seam , sir ? '' move hi hand as with a caulk - iron . `` aye . '' `` and shall I then pay over the same with pitch , sir ? '' move hi hand as with a pitch - pot . `` away ! what possess thee to thi ? make a life - buoy of the coffin , and no more . -- Mr . stubb , Mr . flask , come forward with me . '' `` He goe off in a huff . the whole he can endur ; at the part he baulk . now I don ' t like thi . I make a leg for captain ahab , and he wear it like a gentleman ; but I make a bandbox for queequeg , and he won ' t put hi head into it . are all my pain to go for noth with that coffin ? and now I ' m order to make a life - buoy of it . It ' s like turn an old coat ; go to bring the flesh on the other side now . I don ' t like thi cobbl sort of busi -- I don ' t like it at all ; it ' s undignifi ; it ' s not my place . let tinker ' brat do tinker ; we are their better . I like to take in hand none but clean , virgin , fair - and - squar mathemat job , someth that regularli begin at the begin , and is at the middl when midway , and come to an end at the conclus ; not a cobbler ' s job , that ' s at an end in the middl , and at the begin at the end . It ' s the old woman ' s trick to be give cobbl job . lord ! what an affect all old women have for tinker . I know an old woman of sixti - five who ran away with a bald - head young tinker onc . and that ' s the reason I never would work for lone widow old women ashor , when I kept my job - shop in the vineyard ; they might have taken it into their lone old head to run off with me . but heigh - ho ! there are no cap at sea but snow - cap . let me see . nail down the lid ; caulk the seam ; pay over the same with pitch ; batten them down tight , and hang it with the snap - spring over the ship ' s stern . were ever such thing done befor with a coffin ? some superstiti old carpent , now , would be tie up in the rig , ere they would do the job . but I ' m made of knotti aroostook hemlock ; I don ' t budg . crupper with a coffin ! sail about with a grave - yard tray ! but never mind . We worker in wood make bridal - bedstead and card - tabl , as well as coffin and hears . We work by the month , or by the job , or by the profit ; not for us to ask the whi and wherefor of our work , unless it be too confound cobbl , and then we stash it if we can . hem ! I ' ll do the job , now , tenderli . I ' ll have me -- let ' s see -- how mani in the ship ' s compani , all told ? but I ' ve forgotten . ani way , I ' ll have me thirti separ , turk ' s - head life - line , each three feet long hang all round to the coffin . then , if the hull go down , there ' ll be thirti live fellow all fight for one coffin , a sight not seen veri often beneath the sun ! come hammer , caulk - iron , pitch - pot , and marl - spike ! let ' s to it . '' chapter 127 the deck . the coffin laid upon two line - tub , between the vice - bench and the open hatchway ; the carpent caulk it seam ; the string OF twist oakum slowli unwind from A larg roll OF IT place IN the bosom OF hi frock . -- ahab come slowli from the cabin - gangway , and hear pip follow him . back , lad ; I will be with ye again present . He goe ! not thi hand compli with my humor more genial than that boy . -- middl aisl of a church ! what ' s here ? '' `` life - buoy , sir . Mr . starbuck ' s order . Oh , look , sir ! bewar the hatchway ! '' `` thank ye , man . thi coffin lie handi to the vault . '' `` sir ? the hatchway ? oh ! So it doe , sir , so it doe . '' `` art not thou the leg - maker ? look , did not thi stump come from thi shop ? '' `` I believ it did , sir ; doe the ferrul stand , sir ? '' `` well enough . but art thou not also the undertak ? '' `` aye , sir ; I patch up thi thing here as a coffin for queequeg ; but they ' ve set me now to turn it into someth els . '' `` then tell me ; art thou not an arrant , all - grasp , intermeddl , monopolis , heathenish old scamp , to be one day make leg , and the next day coffin to clap them in , and yet again life - buoy out of those same coffin ? thou art as unprincipl as the god , and as much of a jack - of - all - trade . '' `` but I do not mean anyth , sir . I do as I do . '' `` the god again . hark ye , dost thou not ever sing work about a coffin ? the titan , they say , hum snatch when chip out the crater for volcano ; and the grave - digger in the play sing , spade in hand . dost thou never ? '' `` sing , sir ? Do I sing ? Oh , I ' m indiffer enough , sir , for that ; but the reason whi the grave - digger made music must have been becaus there wa none in hi spade , sir . but the caulk mallet is full of it . hark to it . '' `` aye , and that ' s becaus the lid there ' s a sound - board ; and what in all thing make the sound - board is thi -- there ' s naught beneath . and yet , a coffin with a bodi in it ring pretti much the same , carpent . hast thou ever help carri a bier , and heard the coffin knock against the churchyard gate , go in ? `` faith , sir , I ' ve -- '' `` faith ? what ' s that ? '' `` whi , faith , sir , it ' s onli a sort of exclam - like -- that ' s all , sir . '' `` Um , um ; go on . '' `` I wa about to say , sir , that -- '' `` art thou a silk - worm ? dost thou spin thi own shroud out of thyself ? look at thi bosom ! despatch ! and get these trap out of sight . '' `` He goe aft . that wa sudden , now ; but squall come sudden in hot latitud . I ' ve heard that the isl of albemarl , one of the gallipago , is cut by the equat right in the middl . seem to me some sort of equat cut yon old man , too , right in hi middl . He ' s alway under the line -- fieri hot , I tell ye ! He ' s look thi way -- come , oakum ; quick . here we go again . thi wooden mallet is the cork , and I ' m the professor of music glass -- tap , tap ! '' ( ahab TO himself . ) `` there ' s a sight ! there ' s a sound ! the grey - head woodpeck tap the hollow tree ! blind and dumb might well be envi now . see ! that thing rest on two line - tub , full of tow - line . A most malici wag , that fellow . rat - tat ! So man ' s second tick ! Oh ! how immateri are all materi ! what thing real are there , but imponder thought ? here now ' s the veri dread symbol of grim death , by a mere hap , made the express sign of the help and hope of most endang life . A life - buoy of a coffin ! doe it go further ? can it be that in some spiritu sens the coffin is , after all , but an immort - preserv ! I ' ll think of that . but no . So far gone am I in the dark side of earth , that it other side , the theoret bright one , seem but uncertain twilight to me . will ye never have done , carpent , with that accurs sound ? I go below ; let me not see that thing here when I return again . now , then , pip , we ' ll talk thi over ; I do suck most wondrou philosophi from thee ! some unknown conduit from the unknown world must empti into thee ! '' chapter 128 the pequod meet the rachel . next day , a larg ship , the rachel , wa descri , bear directli down upon the pequod , all her spar thickli cluster with men . At the time the pequod wa make good speed through the water ; but as the broad - wing windward stranger shot nigh to her , the boast sail all fell togeth as blank bladder that are burst , and all life fled from the smitten hull . `` bad news ; she bring bad news , '' mutter the old manxman . but ere her command , who , with trumpet to mouth , stood up in hi boat ; ere he could hope hail , ahab ' s voic wa heard . `` hast seen the white whale ? '' `` aye , yesterday . have ye seen a whale - boat adrift ? '' throttl hi joy , ahab neg answer thi unexpect question ; and would then have fain board the stranger , when the stranger captain himself , have stop hi vessel ' s way , wa seen descend her side . A few keen pull , and hi boat - hook soon clinch the pequod ' s main - chain , and he sprang to the deck . immedi he wa recognis by ahab for a nantucket he knew . but no formal salut wa exchang . `` where wa he ? -- not kill ! -- not kill ! '' cri ahab , close advanc . `` how wa it ? '' It seem that somewhat late on the afternoon of the day previou , while three of the stranger ' s boat were engag with a shoal of whale , which had led them some four or five mile from the ship ; and while they were yet in swift chase to windward , the white hump and head of mobi dick had suddenli loom up out of the water , not veri far to leeward ; whereupon , the fourth rig boat -- a reserv one -- had been instantli lower in chase . after a keen sail befor the wind , thi fourth boat -- the swiftest keel of all -- seem to have succeed in fasten -- at least , as well as the man at the mast - head could tell anyth about it . In the distanc he saw the diminish dot boat ; and then a swift gleam of bubbl white water ; and after that noth more ; whenc it wa conclud that the stricken whale must have indefinit run away with hi pursuer , as often happen . there wa some apprehens , but no posit alarm , as yet . the recal signal were place in the rig ; dark came on ; and forc to pick up her three far to windward boat -- ere go in quest of the fourth one in the precis opposit direct -- the ship had not onli been necessit to leav that boat to it fate till near midnight , but , for the time , to increas her distanc from it . but the rest of her crew be at last safe aboard , she crowd all sail -- stunsail on stunsail -- after the miss boat ; kindl a fire in her tri - pot for a beacon ; and everi other man aloft on the look - out . but though when she had thu sail a suffici distanc to gain the presum place of the absent one when last seen ; though she then paus to lower her spare boat to pull all around her ; and not find anyth , had again dash on ; again paus , and lower her boat ; and though she had thu continu do till daylight ; yet not the least glimps of the miss keel had been seen . the stori told , the stranger captain immedi went on to reveal hi object in board the pequod . He desir that ship to unit with hi own in the search ; by sail over the sea some four or five mile apart , on parallel line , and so sweep a doubl horizon , as it were . `` I will wager someth now , '' whisper stubb to flask , `` that some one in that miss boat wore off that captain ' s best coat ; mayhap , hi watch -- he ' s so curs anxiou to get it back . who ever heard of two piou whale - ship cruis after one miss whale - boat in the height of the whale season ? see , flask , onli see how pale he look -- pale in the veri button of hi eye -- look -- it wasn ' t the coat -- it must have been the -- '' `` My boy , my own boy is among them . for god ' s sake -- I beg , I conjur `` -- here exclaim the stranger captain to ahab , who thu far had but icili receiv hi petit . `` for eight - and - forti hour let me charter your ship -- I will gladli pay for it , and roundli pay for it -- if there be no other way -- for eight - and - forti hour onli -- onli that -- you must , oh , you must , and you shall do thi thing . '' `` hi son ! '' cri stubb , `` oh , it ' s hi son he ' s lost ! I take back the coat and watch -- what say ahab ? We must save that boy . '' `` He ' s drown with the rest on ' em , last night , '' said the old manx sailor stand behind them ; `` I heard ; all of ye heard their spirit . '' now , as it shortli turn out , what made thi incid of the rachel ' s the more melancholi , wa the circumst , that not onli wa one of the captain ' s son among the number of the miss boat ' s crew ; but among the number of the other boat ' s crew , at the same time , but on the other hand , separ from the ship dure the dark vicissitud of the chase , there had been still anoth son ; as that for a time , the wretch father wa plung to the bottom of the cruellest perplex ; which wa onli solv for him by hi chief mate ' s instinct adopt the ordinari procedur of a whale - ship in such emerg , that is , when place between jeopard but divid boat , alway to pick up the major first . but the captain , for some unknown constitut reason , had refrain from mention all thi , and not till forc to it by ahab ' s ici did he allud to hi one yet miss boy ; a littl lad , but twelv year old , whose father with the earnest but unmisgiv hardihood of a nantucket ' s patern love , had thu earli sought to initi him in the peril and wonder of a vocat almost immemori the destini of all hi race . nor doe it unfrequ occur , that nantucket captain will send a son of such tender age away from them , for a protract three or four year ' voyag in some other ship than their own ; so that their first knowledg of a whaleman ' s career shall be unenerv by ani chanc display of a father ' s natur but untim partial , or undu apprehens and concern . meantim , now the stranger wa still beseech hi poor boon of ahab ; and ahab still stood like an anvil , receiv everi shock , but without the least quiver of hi own . `` I will not go , '' said the stranger , `` till you say aye to me . Do to me as you would have me do to you in the like case . for you too have a boy , captain ahab -- though but a child , and nestl safe at home now -- a child of your old age too -- ye , ye , you relent ; I see it -- run , run , men , now , and stand by to squar in the yard . '' `` avast , '' cri ahab -- '' touch not a rope - yarn `` ; then in a voic that prolongingli mould everi word -- '' captain gardin , I will not do it . even now I lose time . good - bye , good - bye . god bless ye , man , and may I forgiv myself , but I must go . Mr . starbuck , look at the binnacl watch , and in three minut from thi present instant warn off all stranger : then brace forward again , and let the ship sail as befor . '' hurriedli turn , with avert face , he descend into hi cabin , leav the strang captain transfix at thi uncondit and utter reject of hi so earnest suit . but start from hi enchant , gardin silent hurri to the side ; more fell than step into hi boat , and return to hi ship . soon the two ship diverg their wake ; and long as the strang vessel wa in view , she wa seen to yaw hither and thither at everi dark spot , howev small , on the sea . thi way and that her yard were swung round ; starboard and larboard , she continu to tack ; now she beat against a head sea ; and again it push her befor it ; while all the while , her mast and yard were thickli cluster with men , as three tall cherri tree , when the boy are cherri among the bough . but by her still halt cours and wind , woeful way , you plainli saw that thi ship that so wept with spray , still remain without comfort . she wa rachel , weep for her children , becaus they were not . chapter 129 the cabin . ( ahab move TO GO ON deck ; pip catch him BY the hand TO follow . ) lad , lad , I tell thee thou must not follow ahab now . the hour is come when ahab would not scare thee from him , yet would not have thee by him . there is that in thee , poor lad , which I feel too cure to my maladi . like cure like ; and for thi hunt , my maladi becom my most desir health . Do thou abid below here , where they shall serv thee , as if thou wert the captain . aye , lad , thou shalt sit here in my own screw chair ; anoth screw to it , thou must be . '' `` No , no , no ! ye have not a whole bodi , sir ; do ye but use poor me for your one lost leg ; onli tread upon me , sir ; I ask no more , so I remain a part of ye . '' `` Oh ! spite of million villain , thi make me a bigot in the fadeless fidel of man ! -- and a black ! and crazi ! -- but methink like - cure - like appli to him too ; he grow so sane again . '' `` they tell me , sir , that stubb did onc desert poor littl pip , whose drown bone now show white , for all the black of hi live skin . but I will never desert ye , sir , as stubb did him . sir , I must go with ye . '' `` If thou speakest thu to me much more , ahab ' s purpos keel up in him . I tell thee no ; it can not be . '' `` Oh good master , master , master ! `` weep so , and I will murder thee ! have a care , for ahab too is mad . listen , and thou wilt often hear my ivori foot upon the deck , and still know that I am there . and now I quit thee . thi hand ! -- met ! true art thou , lad , as the circumfer to it centr . So : god for ever bless thee ; and if it come to that , -- god for ever save thee , let what will befal . '' ( ahab goe ; pip step one step forward . ) `` here he thi instant stood ; I stand in hi air , -- but I ' m alon . now were even poor pip here I could endur it , but he ' s miss . pip ! pip ! ding , dong , ding ! who ' s seen pip ? He must be up here ; let ' s tri the door . what ? neither lock , nor bolt , nor bar ; and yet there ' s no open it . It must be the spell ; he told me to stay here : aye , and told me thi screw chair wa mine . here , then , I ' ll seat me , against the transom , in the ship ' s full middl , all her keel and her three mast befor me . here , our old sailor say , in their black seventi - four great admir sometim sit at tabl , and lord it over row of captain and lieuten . Ha ! what ' s thi ? epaulet ! epaulet ! the epaulet all come crowd ! pass round the decant ; glad to see ye ; fill up , monsieur ! what an odd feel , now , when a black boy ' s host to white men with gold lace upon their coat ! -- monsieur , have ye seen one pip ? -- a littl negro lad , five feet high , hang - dog look , and cowardli ! jump from a whale - boat onc ; -- seen him ? No ! well then , fill up again , captain , and let ' s drink shame upon all coward ! I name no name . shame upon them ! put one foot upon the tabl . shame upon all coward . -- hist ! abov there , I hear ivori -- Oh , master ! master ! I am inde down - heart when you walk over me . but here I ' ll stay , though thi stern strike rock ; and they bulg through ; and oyster come to join me . '' chapter 130 the hat . and now that at the proper time and place , after so long and wide a preliminari cruis , ahab , -- all other whale water swept -- seem to have chase hi foe into an ocean - fold , to slay him the more secur there ; now , that he found himself hard by the veri latitud and longitud where hi torment wound had been inflict ; now that a vessel had been spoken which on the veri day preced had actual encount mobi dick ; -- and now that all hi success meet with variou ship contrastingli concur to show the demoniac indiffer with which the white whale tore hi hunter , whether sin or sin against ; now it wa that there lurk a someth in the old man ' s eye , which it wa hardli suffer for feebl soul to see . As the unset polar star , which through the livelong , arctic , six month ' night sustain it pierc , steadi , central gaze ; so ahab ' s purpos now fixedli gleam down upon the constant midnight of the gloomi crew . It domin abov them so , that all their bode , doubt , misgiv , fear , were fain to hide beneath their soul , and not sprout forth a singl spear or leaf . In thi foreshadow interv too , all humor , forc or natur , vanish . stubb no more strove to rais a smile ; starbuck no more strove to check one . alik , joy and sorrow , hope and fear , seem ground to finest dust , and powder , for the time , in the clamp mortar of ahab ' s iron soul . like machin , they dumbl move about the deck , ever consciou that the old man ' s despot eye wa on them . but did you deepli scan him in hi more secret confidenti hour ; when he thought no glanc but one wa on him ; then you would have seen that even as ahab ' s eye so awe the crew ' s , the inscrut parse ' s glanc awe hi ; or somehow , at least , in some wild way , at time affect it . such an ad , glide strang began to invest the thin fedallah now ; such ceaseless shudder shook him ; that the men look dubiou at him ; half uncertain , as it seem , whether inde he were a mortal substanc , or els a tremul shadow cast upon the deck by some unseen be ' s bodi . and that shadow wa alway hover there . for not by night , even , had fedallah ever certainli been known to slumber , or go below . He would stand still for hour : but never sat or lean ; hi wan but wondrou eye did plainli say -- We two watchmen never rest . nor , at ani time , by night or day could the marin now step upon the deck , unless ahab wa befor them ; either stand in hi pivot - hole , or exactli pace the plank between two undevi limit , -- the main - mast and the mizen ; or els they saw him stand in the cabin - scuttl , -- hi live foot advanc upon the deck , as if to step ; hi hat slouch heavili over hi eye ; so that howev motionless he stood , howev the day and night were ad on , that he had not swung in hi hammock ; yet hidden beneath that slouch hat , they could never tell unerringli whether , for all thi , hi eye were realli close at time ; or whether he wa still intent scan them ; no matter , though he stood so in the scuttl for a whole hour on the stretch , and the unheed night - damp gather in bead of dew upon that stone - carv coat and hat . the cloth that the night had wet , the next day ' s sunshin dri upon him ; and so , day after day , and night after night ; he went no more beneath the plank ; whatev he want from the cabin that thing he sent for . He ate in the same open air ; that is , hi two onli meal , -- breakfast and dinner : supper he never touch ; nor reap hi beard ; which darkli grew all gnarl , as unearth root of tree blown over , which still grow idli on at nake base , though perish in the upper verdur . but though hi whole life wa now becom one watch on deck ; and though the parse ' s mystic watch wa without intermiss as hi own ; yet these two never seem to speak -- one man to the other -- unless at long interv some pass unmoment matter made it necessari . though such a potent spell seem secretli to join the twain ; openli , and to the awe - struck crew , they seem pole - like asund . If by day they chanc to speak one word ; by night , dumb men were both , so far as concern the slightest verbal interchang . At time , for longest hour , without a singl hail , they stood far part in the starlight ; ahab in hi scuttl , the parse by the mainmast ; but still fixedli gaze upon each other ; as if in the parse ahab saw hi forethrown shadow , in ahab the parse hi abandon substanc . and yet , somehow , did ahab -- in hi own proper self , as daili , hourli , and everi instant , commandingli reveal to hi subordin , -- ahab seem an independ lord ; the parse but hi slave . still again both seem yoke togeth , and an unseen tyrant drive them ; the lean shade side the solid rib . for be thi parse what he may , all rib and keel wa solid ahab . At the first faintest glimmer of the dawn , hi iron voic wa heard from aft , -- '' man the mast - head ! '' -- and all through the day , till after sunset and after twilight , the same voic everi hour , at the strike of the helmsman ' s bell , wa heard -- '' what d ' ye see ? -- sharp ! sharp ! '' but when three or four day had slide by , after meet the children - seek rachel ; and no spout had yet been seen ; the monomaniac old man seem distrust of hi crew ' s fidel ; at least , of nearli all except the pagan harpoon ; he seem to doubt , even , whether stubb and flask might not willingli overlook the sight he sought . but if these suspicion were realli hi , he sagaci refrain from verbal express them , howev hi action might seem to hint them . `` I will have the first sight of the whale myself , '' -- he said . `` aye ! ahab must have the doubloon ! and with hi own hand he rig a nest of basket bowlin ; and send a hand aloft , with a singl sheav block , to secur to the main - mast head , he receiv the two end of the downward - reev rope ; and attach one to hi basket prepar a pin for the other end , in order to fasten it at the rail . thi done , with that end yet in hi hand and stand besid the pin , he look round upon hi crew , sweep from one to the other ; paus hi glanc long upon daggoo , queequeg , tashtego ; but shun fedallah ; and then settl hi firm reli eye upon the chief mate , said , -- '' take the rope , sir -- I give it into thi hand , starbuck . '' then arrang hi person in the basket , he gave the word for them to hoist him to hi perch , starbuck be the one who secur the rope at last ; and afterward stood near it . and thu , with one hand cling round the royal mast , ahab gaze abroad upon the sea for mile and mile , -- ahead , astern , thi side , and that , -- within the wide expand circl command at so great a height . when in work with hi hand at some lofti almost isol place in the rig , which chanc to afford no foothold , the sailor at sea is hoist up to that spot , and sustain there by the rope ; under these circumst , it fasten end on deck is alway given in strict charg to some one man who ha the special watch of it . becaus in such a wilder of run rig , whose variou differ relat aloft can not alway be infal discern by what is seen of them at the deck ; and when the deck - end of these rope are be everi few minut cast down from the fasten , it would be but a natur fatal , if , unprovid with a constant watchman , the hoist sailor should by some careless of the crew be cast adrift and fall all swoop to the sea . So ahab ' s proceed in thi matter were not unusu ; the onli strang thing about them seem to be , that starbuck , almost the one onli man who had ever ventur to oppos him with anyth in the slightest degre approach to decis -- one of those too , whose faith on the look - out he had seem to doubt somewhat ; -- it wa strang , that thi wa the veri man he should select for hi watchman ; freeli give hi whole life into such an otherwis distrust person ' s hand . now , the first time ahab wa perch aloft ; ere he had been there ten minut ; one of those red - bill savag sea - hawk which so often fli incommodi close round the man mast - head of whalemen in these latitud ; one of these bird came wheel and scream round hi head in a maze of untrack swift circl . then it dart a thousand feet straight up into the air ; then spiral downward , and went eddi again round hi head . but with hi gaze fix upon the dim and distant horizon , ahab seem not to mark thi wild bird ; nor , inde , would ani one els have mark it much , it be no uncommon circumst ; onli now almost the least heed eye seem to see some sort of cun mean in almost everi sight . `` your hat , your hat , sir ! '' suddenli cri the sicilian seaman , who be post at the mizen - mast - head , stood directli behind ahab , though somewhat lower than hi level , and with a deep gulf of air divid them . but alreadi the sabl wing wa befor the old man ' s eye ; the long hook bill at hi head : with a scream , the black hawk dart away with hi prize . An eagl flew thrice round tarquin ' s head , remov hi cap to replac it , and thereupon tanaquil , hi wife , declar that tarquin would be king of rome . but onli by the replac of the cap wa that omen account good . ahab ' s hat wa never restor ; the wild hawk flew on and on with it ; far in advanc of the prow : and at last disappear ; while from the point of that disappear , a minut black spot wa dimli discern , fall from that vast height into the sea . chapter 131 the pequod meet the delight . the intens pequod sail on ; the roll wave and day went by ; the life - buoy - coffin still lightli swung ; and anoth ship , most miser misnam the delight , wa descri . As she drew nigh , all eye were fix upon her broad beam , call shear , which , in some whale - ship , cross the quarter - deck at the height of eight or nine feet ; serv to carri the spare , unrig , or disabl boat . upon the stranger ' s shear were beheld the shatter , white rib , and some few splinter plank , of what had onc been a whale - boat ; but you now saw through thi wreck , as plainli as you see through the peel , half - unhing , and bleach skeleton of a hors . `` hast seen the white whale ? '' `` look ! '' repli the hollow - cheek captain from hi taffrail ; and with hi trumpet he point to the wreck . `` hast kill him ? '' `` the harpoon is not yet forg that ever will do that , '' answer the other , sadli glanc upon a round hammock on the deck , whose gather side some noiseless sailor were busi in sew togeth . `` not forg ! '' and snatch perth ' s level iron from the crotch , ahab held it out , exclaim -- '' look ye , nantucket ; here in thi hand I hold hi death ! temper in blood , and temper by lightn are these barb ; and I swear to temper them tripli in that hot place behind the fin , where the white whale most feel hi accurs life ! '' `` then god keep thee , old man -- see ' st thou that `` -- point to the hammock -- '' I buri but one of five stout men , who were aliv onli yesterday ; but were dead ere night . onli that one I buri ; the rest were buri befor they die ; you sail upon their tomb . '' then turn to hi crew -- '' are ye readi there ? place the plank then on the rail , and lift the bodi ; so , then -- Oh ! god `` -- advanc toward the hammock with uplift hand -- '' may the resurrect and the life -- '' `` brace forward ! Up helm ! '' cri ahab like lightn to hi men . but the suddenli start pequod wa not quick enough to escap the sound of the splash that the corps soon made as it struck the sea ; not so quick , inde , but that some of the fli bubbl might have sprinkl her hull with their ghostli baptism . As ahab now glide from the deject delight , the strang life - buoy hang at the pequod ' s stern came into conspicu relief . `` Ha ! yonder ! look yonder , men ! '' cri a forebod voic in her wake . `` In vain , oh , ye stranger , ye fli our sad burial ; ye but turn us your taffrail to show us your coffin ! '' chapter 132 the symphoni . It wa a clear steel - blue day . the firmament of air and sea were hardli separ in that all - pervad azur ; onli , the pensiv air wa transpar pure and soft , with a woman ' s look , and the robust and man - like sea heav with long , strong , linger swell , as samson ' s chest in hi sleep . hither , and thither , on high , glide the snow - white wing of small , unspeckl bird ; these were the gentl thought of the feminin air ; but to and fro in the deep , far down in the bottomless blue , rush mighti leviathan , sword - fish , and shark ; and these were the strong , troubl , murder think of the masculin sea . but though thu contrast within , the contrast wa onli in shade and shadow without ; those two seem one ; it wa onli the sex , as it were , that distinguish them . aloft , like a royal czar and king , the sun seem give thi gentl air to thi bold and roll sea ; even as bride to groom . and at the girdl line of the horizon , a soft and tremul motion -- most seen here at the equat -- denot the fond , throb trust , the love alarm , with which the poor bride gave her bosom away . tie up and twist ; gnarl and knot with wrinkl ; haggardli firm and unyield ; hi eye glow like coal , that still glow in the ash of ruin ; untott ahab stood forth in the clear of the morn ; lift hi splinter helmet of a brow to the fair girl ' s forehead of heaven . Oh , immort infanc , and innoc of the azur ! invis wing creatur that frolic all round us ! sweet childhood of air and sky ! how oblivi were ye of old ahab ' s close - coil woe ! but so have I seen littl miriam and martha , laugh - eye elv , heedlessli gambol around their old sire ; sport with the circl of sing lock which grew on the marg of that burnt - out crater of hi brain . slowli cross the deck from the scuttl , ahab lean over the side and watch how hi shadow in the water sank and sank to hi gaze , the more and the more that he strove to pierc the profund . but the love aroma in that enchant air did at last seem to dispel , for a moment , the canker thing in hi soul . that glad , happi air , that winsom sky , did at last stroke and caress him ; the step - mother world , so long cruel -- forbid -- now threw affection arm round hi stubborn neck , and did seem to joyous sob over him , as if over one , that howev wil and er , she could yet find it in her heart to save and to bless . from beneath hi slouch hat ahab drop a tear into the sea ; nor did all the pacif contain such wealth as that one wee drop . starbuck saw the old man ; saw him , how he heavili lean over the side ; and he seem to hear in hi own true heart the measureless sob that stole out of the centr of the seren around . care not to touch him , or be notic by him , he yet drew near to him , and stood there . ahab turn . `` starbuck ! '' `` sir . '' `` Oh , starbuck ! it is a mild , mild wind , and a mild look sky . On such a day -- veri much such a sweet as thi -- I struck my first whale -- a boy - harpoon of eighteen ! forti -- forti -- forti year ago ! -- ago ! forti year of continu whale ! forti year of privat , and peril , and storm - time ! forti year on the pitiless sea ! for forti year ha ahab forsaken the peac land , for forti year to make war on the horror of the deep ! aye and ye , starbuck , out of those forti year I have not spent three ashor . when I think of thi life I have led ; the desol of solitud it ha been ; the mason , wall - town of a captain ' s exclus , which admit but small entranc to ani sympathi from the green countri without -- oh , weari ! heavi ! guinea - coast slaveri of solitari command ! -- when I think of all thi ; onli half - suspect , not so keenli known to me befor -- and how for forti year I have fed upon dri salt fare -- fit emblem of the dri nourish of my soil ! -- when the poorest landsman ha had fresh fruit to hi daili hand , and broken the world ' s fresh bread to my mouldi crust -- away , whole ocean away , from that young girl - wife I wed past fifti , and sail for cape horn the next day , leav but one dent in my marriag pillow -- wife ? wife ? -- rather a widow with her husband aliv ! aye , I widow that poor girl when I marri her , starbuck ; and then , the mad , the frenzi , the boil blood and the smoke brow , with which , for a thousand lower old ahab ha furious , foamingli chase hi prey -- more a demon than a man ! -- aye , aye ! what a forti year ' fool -- fool -- old fool , ha old ahab been ! whi thi strife of the chase ? whi weari , and palsi the arm at the oar , and the iron , and the lanc ? how the richer or better is ahab now ? behold . Oh , starbuck ! is it not hard , that with thi weari load I bear , one poor leg should have been snatch from under me ? here , brush thi old hair asid ; it blind me , that I seem to weep . lock so grey did never grow but from out some ash ! but do I look veri old , so veri , veri old , starbuck ? I feel deadli faint , bow , and hump , as though I were adam , stagger beneath the pile centuri sinc paradis . god ! god ! god ! -- crack my heart ! -- stave my brain ! -- mockeri ! mockeri ! bitter , bite mockeri of grey hair , have I live enough joy to wear ye ; and seem and feel thu intoler old ? close ! stand close to me , starbuck ; let me look into a human eye ; it is better than to gaze into sea or sky ; better than to gaze upon god . By the green land ; by the bright hearth - stone ! thi is the magic glass , man ; I see my wife and my child in thine eye . No , no ; stay on board , on board ! -- lower not when I do ; when brand ahab give chase to mobi dick . that hazard shall not be thine . No , no ! not with the far away home I see in that eye ! '' `` Oh , my captain ! my captain ! nobl soul ! grand old heart , after all ! whi should ani one give chase to that hate fish ! away with me ! let us fli these deadli water ! let us home ! wife and child , too , are starbuck ' s -- wife and child of hi brotherli , sisterli , play - fellow youth ; even as thine , sir , are the wife and child of thi love , long , patern old age ! away ! let us away ! -- thi instant let me alter the cours ! how cheerili , how hilari , O my captain , would we bowl on our way to see old nantucket again ! I think , sir , they have some such mild blue day , even as thi , in nantucket . '' `` they have , they have . I have seen them -- some summer day in the morn . about thi time -- ye , it is hi noon nap now -- the boy vivaci wake ; sit up in bed ; and hi mother tell him of me , of cannib old me ; how I am abroad upon the deep , but will yet come back to danc him again . '' `` ' ti my mari , my mari herself ! she promis that my boy , everi morn , should be carri to the hill to catch the first glimps of hi father ' s sail ! ye , ye ! no more ! it is done ! we head for nantucket ! come , my captain , studi out the cours , and let us away ! see , see ! the boy ' s face from the window ! the boy ' s hand on the hill ! '' but ahab ' s glanc wa avert ; like a blight fruit tree he shook , and cast hi last , cinder appl to the soil . `` what is it , what nameless , inscrut , unearthli thing is it ; what cozen , hidden lord and master , and cruel , remorseless emperor command me ; that against all natur love and long , I so keep push , and crowd , and jam myself on all the time ; recklessli make me readi to do what in my own proper , natur heart , I durst not so much as dare ? Is ahab , ahab ? Is it I , god , or who , that lift thi arm ? but if the great sun move not of himself ; but is as an errand - boy in heaven ; nor one singl star can revolv , but by some invis power ; how then can thi one small heart beat ; thi one small brain think thought ; unless god doe that beat , doe that think , doe that live , and not I . By heaven , man , we are turn round and round in thi world , like yonder windlass , and fate is the handspik . and all the time , lo ! that smile sky , and thi unsound sea ! look ! see yon albicor ! who put it into him to chase and fang that fli - fish ? where do murder go , man ! who ' s to doom , when the judg himself is drag to the bar ? but it is a mild , mild wind , and a mild look sky ; and the air smell now , as if it blew from a far - away meadow ; they have been make hay somewher under the slope of the and , starbuck , and the mower are sleep among the new - mown hay . sleep ? aye , toil we how we may , we all sleep at last on the field . sleep ? aye , and rust amid green ; as last year ' s scyth flung down , and left in the half - cut swath -- starbuck ! '' but blanch to a corps ' s hue with despair , the mate had stolen away . ahab cross the deck to gaze over on the other side ; but start at two reflect , fix eye in the water there . fedallah wa motionlessli lean over the same rail . chapter 133 the chase -- first day . that night , in the mid - watch , when the old man -- as hi wont at interv -- step forth from the scuttl in which he lean , and went to hi pivot - hole , he suddenli thrust out hi face fierc , snuf up the sea air as a sagaci ship ' s dog will , in draw nigh to some barbar isl . He declar that a whale must be near . soon that peculiar odor , sometim to a great distanc given forth by the live sperm whale , wa palpabl to all the watch ; nor wa ani marin surpris when , after inspect the compass , and then the dog - vane , and then ascertain the precis bear of the odor as nearli as possibl , ahab rapidli order the ship ' s cours to be slightli alter , and the sail to be shorten . the acut polici dictat these movement wa suffici vindic at daybreak , by the sight of a long sleek on the sea directli and lengthwis ahead , smooth as oil , and resembl in the pleat wateri wrinkl border it , the polish metal - like mark of some swift tide - rip , at the mouth of a deep , rapid stream . `` man the mast - head ! call all hand ! '' thunder with the butt of three club handspik on the forecastl deck , daggoo rous the sleeper with such judgment clap that they seem to exhal from the scuttl , so instantan did they appear with their cloth in their hand . `` what d ' ye see ? '' cri ahab , flatten hi face to the sky . `` noth , noth sir ! '' wa the sound hail down in repli . `` T ' gallant sail ! -- stunsail ! alow and aloft , and on both side ! '' all sail be set , he now cast loos the life - line , reserv for sway him to the main royal - mast head ; and in a few moment they were hoist him thither , when , while but two third of the way aloft , and while peer ahead through the horizont vacanc between the main - top - sail and top - gallant - sail , he rais a gull - like cri in the air . `` there she blow ! -- there she blow ! A hump like a snow - hill ! It is mobi dick ! '' fire by the cri which seem simultan taken up by the three look - out , the men on deck rush to the rig to behold the famou whale they had so long been pursu . ahab had now gain hi final perch , some feet abov the other look - out , tashtego stand just beneath him on the cap of the top - gallant - mast , so that the indian ' s head wa almost on a level with ahab ' s heel . from thi height the whale wa now seen some mile or so ahead , at everi roll of the sea reveal hi high sparkl hump , and regularli jet hi silent spout into the air . To the credul marin it seem the same silent spout they had so long ago beheld in the moonlit atlant and indian ocean . `` and did none of ye see it befor ? '' cri ahab , hail the perch men all around him . `` I saw him almost that same instant , sir , that captain ahab did , and I cri out , '' said tashtego . `` not the same instant ; not the same -- no , the doubloon is mine , fate reserv the doubloon for me . I onli ; none of ye could have rais the white whale first . there she blow ! -- there she blow ! -- there she blow ! there again ! -- there again ! '' he cri , in long - drawn , linger , method tone , attun to the gradual prolong of the whale ' s visibl jet . `` He ' s go to sound ! In stunsail ! down top - gallant - sail ! stand by three boat . Mr . starbuck , rememb , stay on board , and keep the ship . helm there ! luff , luff a point ! So ; steadi , man , steadi ! there go fluke ! No , no ; onli black water ! all readi the boat there ? stand by , stand by ! lower me , Mr . starbuck ; lower , lower , -- quick , quicker ! '' and he slid through the air to the deck . `` He is head straight to leeward , sir , '' cri stubb , `` right away from us ; can not have seen the ship yet . '' `` Be dumb , man ! stand by the brace ! hard down the helm ! -- brace up ! shiver her ! -- shiver her ! -- So ; well that ! boat , boat ! '' soon all the boat but starbuck ' s were drop ; all the boat - sail set -- all the paddl pli ; with rippl swift , shoot to leeward ; and ahab head the onset . A pale , death - glimmer lit up fedallah ' s sunken eye ; a hideou motion gnaw hi mouth . like noiseless nautilu shell , their light prow sped through the sea ; but onli slowli they near the foe . As they near him , the ocean grew still more smooth ; seem draw a carpet over it wave ; seem a noon - meadow , so seren it spread . At length the breathless hunter came so nigh hi seemingli unsuspect prey , that hi entir dazzl hump wa distinctli visibl , slide along the sea as if an isol thing , and continu set in a revolv ring of finest , fleeci , greenish foam . He saw the vast , involv wrinkl of the slightli project head beyond . befor it , far out on the soft turkish - rug water , went the glisten white shadow from hi broad , milki forehead , a music rippl play accompani the shade ; and behind , the blue water interchang flow over into the move valley of hi steadi wake ; and on either hand bright bubbl aros and danc by hi side . but these were broken again by the light toe of hundr of gay fowl softli feather the sea , altern with their fit flight ; and like to some flag - staff rise from the paint hull of an argosi , the tall but shatter pole of a recent lanc project from the white whale ' s back ; and at interv one of the cloud of soft - to fowl hover , and to and fro skim like a canopi over the fish , silent perch and rock on thi pole , the long tail feather stream like pennon . A gentl joyous -- a mighti mild of repos in swift , invest the glide whale . not the white bull jupit swim away with ravish europa cling to hi grace horn ; hi love , leer eye sideway intent upon the maid ; with smooth bewitch fleet , rippl straight for the nuptial bower in crete ; not jove , not that great majesti suprem ! did surpass the glorifi white whale as he so divin swam . On each soft side -- coincid with the part swell , that but onc leav him , then flow so wide away -- on each bright side , the whale shed off entic . No wonder there had been some among the hunter who namelessli transport and allur by all thi seren , had ventur to assail it ; but had fatal found that quietud but the vestur of tornado . yet calm , entic calm , oh , whale ! thou glidest on , to all who for the first time eye thee , no matter how mani in that same way thou may ' st have bejuggl and destroy befor . and thu , through the seren tranquil of the tropic sea , among wave whose hand - clap were suspend by exceed raptur , mobi dick move on , still withhold from sight the full terror of hi submerg trunk , entir hide the wrench hideous of hi jaw . but soon the fore part of him slowli rose from the water ; for an instant hi whole marbleiz bodi form a high arch , like virginia ' s natur bridg , and warningli wave hi banner fluke in the air , the grand god reveal himself , sound , and went out of sight . hoveringli halt , and dip on the wing , the white sea - fowl longingli linger over the agit pool that he left . with oar apeak , and paddl down , the sheet of their sail adrift , the three boat now stilli float , await mobi dick ' s reappear . `` An hour , '' said ahab , stand root in hi boat ' s stern ; and he gaze beyond the whale ' s place , toward the dim blue space and wide woo vacanc to leeward . It wa onli an instant ; for again hi eye seem whirl round in hi head as he swept the wateri circl . the breez now freshen ; the sea began to swell . `` the bird ! -- the bird ! '' cri tashtego . In long indian file , as when heron take wing , the white bird were now all fli toward ahab ' s boat ; and when within a few yard began flutter over the water there , wheel round and round , with joyou , expect cri . their vision wa keener than man ' s ; ahab could discov no sign in the sea . but suddenli as he peer down and down into it depth , he profoundli saw a white live spot no bigger than a white weasel , with wonder celer upris , and magnifi as it rose , till it turn , and then there were plainli reveal two long crook row of white , glisten teeth , float up from the undiscover bottom . It wa mobi dick ' s open mouth and scroll jaw ; hi vast , shadow bulk still half blend with the blue of the sea . the glitter mouth yawn beneath the boat like an open - door marbl tomb ; and give one sidelong sweep with hi steer oar , ahab whirl the craft asid from thi tremend apparit . then , call upon fedallah to chang place with him , went forward to the bow , and seiz perth ' s harpoon , command hi crew to grasp their oar and stand by to stern . now , by reason of thi time spin round the boat upon it axi , it bow , by anticip , wa made to face the whale ' s head while yet under water . but as if perceiv thi stratagem , mobi dick , with that malici intellig ascrib to him , sidelingli transplant himself , as it were , in an instant , shoot hi pleat head lengthwis beneath the boat . through and through ; through everi plank and each rib , it thrill for an instant , the whale obliqu lie on hi back , in the manner of a bite shark , slowli and feelingli take it bow full within hi mouth , so that the long , narrow , scroll lower jaw curl high up into the open air , and one of the teeth caught in a row - lock . the bluish pearl - white of the insid of the jaw wa within six inch of ahab ' s head , and reach higher than that . In thi attitud the white whale now shook the slight cedar as a mildli cruel cat her mous . with unastonish eye fedallah gaze , and cross hi arm ; but the tiger - yellow crew were tumbl over each other ' s head to gain the uttermost stern . and now , while both elast gunwal were spring in and out , as the whale dalli with the doom craft in thi devilish way ; and from hi bodi be submerg beneath the boat , he could not be dart at from the bow , for the bow were almost insid of him , as it were ; and while the other boat involuntarili paus , as befor a quick crisi imposs to withstand , then it wa that monomaniac ahab , furiou with thi tantal vicin of hi foe , which place him all aliv and helpless in the veri jaw he hate ; frenzi with all thi , he seiz the long bone with hi nake hand , and wildli strove to wrench it from it gripe . As now he thu vainli strove , the jaw slip from him ; the frail gunwal bent in , collaps , and snap , as both jaw , like an enorm shear , slide further aft , bit the craft complet in twain , and lock themselv fast again in the sea , midway between the two float wreck . these float asid , the broken end droop , the crew at the stern - wreck cling to the gunwal , and strive to hold fast to the oar to lash them across . At that prelud moment , ere the boat wa yet snap , ahab , the first to perceiv the whale ' s intent , by the crafti uprais of hi head , a movement that loos hi hold for the time ; at that moment hi hand had made one final effort to push the boat out of the bite . but onli slip further into the whale ' s mouth , and tilt over sideway as it slip , the boat had shaken off hi hold on the jaw ; spill him out of it , as he lean to the push ; and so he fell flat - face upon the sea . ripplingli withdraw from hi prey , mobi dick now lay at a littl distanc , vertic thrust hi oblong white head up and down in the billow ; and at the same time slowli revolv hi whole spindl bodi ; so that when hi vast wrinkl forehead rose -- some twenti or more feet out of the water -- the now rise swell , with all their confluent wave , dazzlingli broke against it ; vindict toss their shiver spray still higher into the air . * So , in a gale , the but half baffl channel billow onli recoil from the base of the eddyston , triumphantli to overleap it summit with their scud . * thi motion is peculiar to the sperm whale . It receiv it design ( pitchpol ) from it be liken to that preliminari up - and - down pois of the whale - lanc , in the exercis call pitchpol , previous describ . By thi motion the whale must best and most comprehens view whatev object may be encircl him . but soon resum hi horizont attitud , mobi dick swam swiftli round and round the wreck crew ; sideway churn the water in hi veng wake , as if lash himself up to still anoth and more deadli assault . the sight of the splinter boat seem to madden him , as the blood of grape and mulberri cast befor antiochu ' s eleph in the book of maccabe . meanwhil ahab half smother in the foam of the whale ' s insol tail , and too much of a crippl to swim , -- though he could still keep afloat , even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that ; helpless ahab ' s head wa seen , like a toss bubbl which the least chanc shock might burst . from the boat ' s fragmentari stern , fedallah incuri and mildli eye him ; the cling crew , at the other drift end , could not succor him ; more than enough wa it for them to look to themselv . for so revolvingli appal wa the white whale ' s aspect , and so planetarili swift the ever - contract circl he made , that he seem horizont swoop upon them . and though the other boat , unharm , still hover hard by ; still they dare not pull into the eddi to strike , lest that should be the signal for the instant destruct of the jeopard castaway , ahab and all ; nor in that case could they themselv hope to escap . with strain eye , then , they remain on the outer edg of the dire zone , whose centr had now becom the old man ' s head . meantim , from the begin all thi had been descri from the ship ' s mast head ; and squar her yard , she had born down upon the scene ; and wa now so nigh , that ahab in the water hail her ! -- '' sail on the `` -- but that moment a break sea dash on him from mobi dick , and whelm him for the time . but struggl out of it again , and chanc to rise on a tower crest , he shout , -- '' sail on the whale ! -- drive him off ! '' the pequod ' s prow were point ; and break up the charm circl , she effectu part the white whale from hi victim . As he sullenli swam off , the boat flew to the rescu . drag into stubb ' s boat with blood - shot , blind eye , the white brine cake in hi wrinkl ; the long tension of ahab ' s bodili strength did crack , and helplessli he yield to hi bodi ' s doom : for a time , lie all crush in the bottom of stubb ' s boat , like one trodden under foot of herd of eleph . far inland , nameless wail came from him , as desol sound from out ravin . but thi intens of hi physic prostrat did but so much the more abbrevi it . In an instant ' s compass , great heart sometim condens to one deep pang , the sum total of those shallow pain kindli diffus through feebler men ' s whole live . and so , such heart , though summari in each one suffer ; still , if the god decre it , in their life - time aggreg a whole age of woe , wholli made up of instantan intens ; for even in their pointless centr , those nobl natur contain the entir circumfer of inferior soul . `` the harpoon , '' said ahab , half way rise , and draggingli lean on one bend arm -- '' is it safe ? '' `` aye , sir , for it wa not dart ; thi is it , '' said stubb , show it . `` lay it befor me ; -- ani miss men ? '' `` one , two , three , four , five ; -- there were five oar , sir , and here are five men . '' `` that ' s good . -- help me , man ; I wish to stand . So , so , I see him ! there ! there ! go to leeward still ; what a leap spout ! -- hand off from me ! the etern sap run up in ahab ' s bone again ! set the sail ; out oar ; the helm ! '' It is often the case that when a boat is stove , it crew , be pick up by anoth boat , help to work that second boat ; and the chase is thu continu with what is call doubl - bank oar . It wa thu now . but the ad power of the boat did not equal the ad power of the whale , for he seem to have trebl - bank hi everi fin ; swim with a veloc which plainli show , that if now , under these circumst , push on , the chase would prove an indefinit prolong , if not a hopeless one ; nor could ani crew endur for so long a period , such an unintermit , intens strain at the oar ; a thing bare toler onli in some one brief vicissitud . the ship itself , then , as it sometim happen , offer the most promis intermedi mean of overtak the chase . accordingli , the boat now made for her , and were soon sway up to their crane -- the two part of the wreck boat have been previous secur by her -- and then hoist everyth to her side , and stack her canva high up , and sideway outstretch it with stun - sail , like the doubl - joint wing of an albatross ; the pequod bore down in the leeward wake of mobi - dick . At the well known , method interv , the whale ' s glitter spout wa regularli announc from the man mast - head ; and when he would be report as just gone down , ahab would take the time , and then pace the deck , binnacl - watch in hand , so soon as the last second of the allot hour expir , hi voic wa heard . -- '' whose is the doubloon now ? D ' ye see him ? '' and if the repli wa , No , sir ! straightway he command them to lift him to hi perch . In thi way the day wore on ; ahab , now aloft and motionless ; anon , unrestingli pace the plank . As he wa thu walk , utter no sound , except to hail the men aloft , or to bid them hoist a sail still higher , or to spread one to a still greater breadth -- thu to and fro pace , beneath hi slouch hat , at everi turn he pass hi own wreck boat , which had been drop upon the quarter - deck , and lay there revers ; broken bow to shatter stern . At last he paus befor it ; and as in an alreadi over - cloud sky fresh troop of cloud will sometim sail across , so over the old man ' s face there now stole some such ad gloom as thi . stubb saw him paus ; and perhap intend , not vainli , though , to evinc hi own unab fortitud , and thu keep up a valiant place in hi captain ' s mind , he advanc , and eye the wreck exclaim -- '' the thistl the ass refus ; it prick hi mouth too keenli , sir ; ha ! ha ! '' `` what soulless thing is thi that laugh befor a wreck ? man , man ! did I not know thee brave as fearless fire ( and as mechan ) I could swear thou wert a poltroon . groan nor laugh should be heard befor a wreck . '' `` aye , sir , '' said starbuck draw near , `` ' ti a solemn sight ; an omen , and an ill one . '' `` omen ? omen ? -- the dictionari ! If the god think to speak outright to man , they will honour speak outright ; not shake their head , and give an old wive ' darkl hint . -- begon ! Ye two are the opposit pole of one thing ; starbuck is stubb revers , and stubb is starbuck ; and ye two are all mankind ; and ahab stand alon among the million of the peopl earth , nor god nor men hi neighbor ! cold , cold -- I shiver ! -- how now ? aloft there ! D ' ye see him ? sing out for everi spout , though he spout ten time a second ! '' the day wa nearli done ; onli the hem of hi golden robe wa rustl . soon , it wa almost dark , but the look - out men still remain unset . `` can ' t see the spout now , sir ; -- too dark `` -- cri a voic from the air . `` how head when last seen ? '' `` As befor , sir , -- straight to leeward . '' `` good ! he will travel slower now ' ti night . down royal and top - gallant stun - sail , Mr . starbuck . We must not run over him befor morn ; he ' s make a passag now , and may heav - to a while . helm there ! keep her full befor the wind ! -- aloft ! come down ! -- Mr . stubb , send a fresh hand to the fore - mast head , and see it man till morn . '' -- then advanc toward the doubloon in the main - mast -- '' men , thi gold is mine , for I earn it ; but I shall let it abid here till the white whale is dead ; and then , whosoev of ye first rais him , upon the day he shall be kill , thi gold is that man ' s ; and if on that day I shall again rais him , then , ten time it sum shall be divid among all of ye ! away now ! -- the deck is thine , sir ! '' and so say , he place himself half way within the scuttl , and slouch hi hat , stood there till dawn , except when at interv rous himself to see how the night wore on . chapter 134 the chase -- second day . At day - break , the three mast - head were punctual man afresh . `` D ' ye see him ? '' cri ahab after allow a littl space for the light to spread . `` see noth , sir . '' `` turn up all hand and make sail ! he travel faster than I thought for ; -- the top - gallant sail ! -- aye , they should have been kept on her all night . but no matter -- ' ti but rest for the rush . '' here be it said , that thi pertinaci pursuit of one particular whale , continu through day into night , and through night into day , is a thing by no mean unpreced in the south sea fisheri . for such is the wonder skill , prescienc of experi , and invinc confid acquir by some great natur genius among the nantucket command ; that from the simpl observ of a whale when last descri , they will , under certain given circumst , pretti accur foretel both the direct in which he will continu to swim for a time , while out of sight , as well as hi probabl rate of progress dure that period . and , in these case , somewhat as a pilot , when about lose sight of a coast , whose gener trend he well know , and which he desir shortli to return to again , but at some further point ; like as thi pilot stand by hi compass , and take the precis bear of the cape at present visibl , in order the more certainli to hit aright the remot , unseen headland , eventu to be visit : so doe the fisherman , at hi compass , with the whale ; for after be chase , and dilig mark , through sever hour of daylight , then , when night obscur the fish , the creatur ' s futur wake through the dark is almost as establish to the sagaci mind of the hunter , as the pilot ' s coast is to him . So that to thi hunter ' s wondrou skill , the proverbi evanesc of a thing writ in water , a wake , is to all desir purpos well nigh as reliabl as the steadfast land . and as the mighti iron leviathan of the modern railway is so familiarli known in it everi pace , that , with watch in their hand , men time hi rate as doctor that of a babi ' s puls ; and lightli say of it , the up train or the down train will reach such or such a spot , at such or such an hour ; even so , almost , there are occas when these nantucket time that other leviathan of the deep , accord to the observ humor of hi speed ; and say to themselv , so mani hour henc thi whale will have gone two hundr mile , will have about reach thi or that degre of latitud or longitud . but to render thi acut at all success in the end , the wind and the sea must be the whaleman ' s alli ; for of what present avail to the becalm or windbound marin is the skill that assur him he is exactli nineti - three leagu and a quarter from hi port ? infer from these statement , are mani collater subtil matter touch the chase of whale . the ship tore on ; leav such a furrow in the sea as when a cannon - ball , missent , becom a plough - share and turn up the level field . `` By salt and hemp ! '' cri stubb , `` but thi swift motion of the deck creep up one ' s leg and tingl at the heart . thi ship and I are two brave fellow ! -- Ha , ha ! some one take me up , and launch me , spine - wise , on the sea , -- for by live - oak ! my spine ' s a keel . Ha , ha ! we go the gait that leav no dust behind ! '' `` there she blow -- she blow ! -- she blow ! -- right ahead ! '' wa now the mast - head cri . `` aye , aye ! '' cri stubb , `` I knew it -- ye can ' t escap -- blow on and split your spout , O whale ! the mad fiend himself is after ye ! blow your trump -- blister your lung ! -- ahab will dam off your blood , as a miller shut hi waterg upon the stream ! '' and stubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew . the frenzi of the chase had by thi time work them bubblingli up , like old wine work anew . whatev pale fear and forebod some of them might have felt befor ; these were not onli now kept out of sight through the grow awe of ahab , but they were broken up , and on all side rout , as timid prairi hare that scatter befor the bound bison . the hand of fate had snatch all their soul ; and by the stir peril of the previou day ; the rack of the past night ' s suspens ; the fix , unfear , blind , reckless way in which their wild craft went plung toward it fli mark ; by all these thing , their heart were bowl along . the wind that made great belli of their sail , and rush the vessel on by arm invis as irresist ; thi seem the symbol of that unseen agenc which so enslav them to the race . they were one man , not thirti . for as the one ship that held them all ; though it wa put togeth of all contrast thing -- oak , and mapl , and pine wood ; iron , and pitch , and hemp -- yet all these ran into each other in the one concret hull , which shot on it way , both balanc and direct by the long central keel ; even so , all the individu of the crew , thi man ' s valor , that man ' s fear ; guilt and guilti , all varieti were weld into one , and were all direct to that fatal goal which ahab their one lord and keel did point to . the rig live . the mast - head , like the top of tall palm , were outspreadingli tuft with arm and leg . cling to a spar with one hand , some reach forth the other with impati wave ; other , shade their eye from the vivid sunlight , sat far out on the rock yard ; all the spar in full bear of mortal , readi and ripe for their fate . Ah ! how they still strove through that infinit blueness to seek out the thing that might destroy them ! `` whi sing ye not out for him , if ye see him ? '' cri ahab , when , after the laps of some minut sinc the first cri , no more had been heard . `` sway me up , men ; ye have been deceiv ; not mobi dick cast one odd jet that way , and then disappear . '' It wa even so ; in their headlong eager , the men had mistaken some other thing for the whale - spout , as the event itself soon prove ; for hardli had ahab reach hi perch ; hardli wa the rope belay to it pin on deck , when he struck the key - note to an orchestra , that made the air vibrat as with the combin discharg of rifl . the triumphant halloo of thirti buckskin lung wa heard , as -- much nearer to the ship than the place of the imaginari jet , less than a mile ahead -- mobi dick bodili burst into view ! for not by ani calm and indol spout ; not by the peaceabl gush of that mystic fountain in hi head , did the white whale now reveal hi vicin ; but by the far more wondrou phenomenon of breach . rise with hi utmost veloc from the furthest depth , the sperm whale thu boom hi entir bulk into the pure element of air , and pile up a mountain of dazzl foam , show hi place to the distanc of seven mile and more . In those moment , the torn , enrag wave he shake off , seem hi mane ; in some case , thi breach is hi act of defianc . `` there she breach ! there she breach ! '' wa the cri , as in hi immeasur bravado the white whale toss himself salmon - like to heaven . So suddenli seen in the blue plain of the sea , and reliev against the still bluer margin of the sky , the spray that he rais , for the moment , intoler glitter and glare like a glacier ; and stood there gradual fade and fade away from it first sparkl intens , to the dim misti of an advanc shower in a vale . `` aye , breach your last to the sun , mobi dick ! '' cri ahab , `` thi hour and thi harpoon are at hand ! -- down ! down all of ye , but one man at the fore . the boat ! -- stand by ! '' unmind of the tediou rope - ladder of the shroud , the men , like shoot star , slid to the deck , by the isol backstay and halyard ; while ahab , less dartingli , but still rapidli wa drop from hi perch . `` lower away , '' he cri , so soon as he had reach hi boat -- a spare one , rig the afternoon previou . `` Mr . starbuck , the ship is thine -- keep away from the boat , but keep near them . lower , all ! '' As if to strike a quick terror into them , by thi time be the first assail himself , mobi dick had turn , and wa now come for the three crew . ahab ' s boat wa central ; and cheer hi men , he told them he would take the whale head - and - head , -- that is , pull straight up to hi forehead , -- a not uncommon thing ; for when within a certain limit , such a cours exclud the come onset from the whale ' s sidelong vision . but ere that close limit wa gain , and while yet all three boat were plain as the ship ' s three mast to hi eye ; the white whale churn himself into furiou speed , almost in an instant as it were , rush among the boat with open jaw , and a lash tail , offer appal battl on everi side ; and heedless of the iron dart at him from everi boat , seem onli intent on annihil each separ plank of which those boat were made . but skil manoeuvr , incessantli wheel like train charger in the field ; the boat for a while elud him ; though , at time , but by a plank ' s breadth ; while all the time , ahab ' s unearthli slogan tore everi other cri but hi to shred . but at last in hi untrac evolut , the white whale so cross and recross , and in a thousand way entangl the slack of the three line now fast to him , that they foreshorten , and , of themselv , warp the devot boat toward the plant iron in him ; though now for a moment the whale drew asid a littl , as if to ralli for a more tremend charg . seiz that opportun , ahab first paid out more line : and then wa rapidli haul and jerk in upon it again -- hope that way to disencumb it of some snarl -- when lo ! -- a sight more savag than the embattl teeth of shark ! caught and twist -- corkscrew in the maze of the line , loos harpoon and lanc , with all their bristl barb and point , came flash and drip up to the chock in the bow of ahab ' s boat . onli one thing could be done . seiz the boat - knife , he critic reach within -- through -- and then , without -- the ray of steel ; drag in the line beyond , pass it , inboard , to the bowsman , and then , twice sunder the rope near the chock -- drop the intercept fagot of steel into the sea ; and wa all fast again . that instant , the white whale made a sudden rush among the remain tangl of the other line ; by so do , irresist drag the more involv boat of stubb and flask toward hi fluke ; dash them togeth like two roll husk on a surf - beaten beach , and then , dive down into the sea , disappear in a boil maelstrom , in which , for a space , the odor cedar chip of the wreck danc round and round , like the grate nutmeg in a swiftli stir bowl of punch . while the two crew were yet circl in the water , reach out after the revolv line - tub , oar , and other float furnitur , while aslop littl flask bob up and down like an empti vial , twitch hi leg upward to escap the dread jaw of shark ; and stubb wa lustili sing out for some one to ladl him up ; and while the old man ' s line -- now part -- admit of hi pull into the creami pool to rescu whom he could ; -- in that wild simultan of a thousand concret peril , -- ahab ' s yet unstricken boat seem drawn up toward heaven by invis wire , -- as , arrow - like , shoot perpendicularli from the sea , the white whale dash hi broad forehead against it bottom , and sent it , turn over and over , into the air ; till it fell again -- gunwal downward -- and ahab and hi men struggl out from under it , like seal from a sea - side cave . the first upris momentum of the whale -- modifi it direct as he struck the surfac -- involuntarili launch him along it , to a littl distanc from the centr of the destruct he had made ; and with hi back to it , he now lay for a moment slowli feel with hi fluke from side to side ; and whenev a stray oar , bit of plank , the least chip or crumb of the boat touch hi skin , hi tail swiftli drew back , and came sideway smite the sea . but soon , as if satisfi that hi work for that time wa done , he push hi pleat forehead through the ocean , and trail after him the intertangl line , continu hi leeward way at a travel ' s method pace . As befor , the attent ship have descri the whole fight , again came bear down to the rescu , and drop a boat , pick up the float marin , tub , oar , and whatev els could be caught at , and safe land them on her deck . some sprain shoulder , wrist , and ankl ; livid contus ; wrench harpoon and lanc ; inextric intricaci of rope ; shatter oar and plank ; all these were there ; but no fatal or even seriou ill seem to have befallen ani one . As with fedallah the day befor , so ahab wa now found grimli cling to hi boat ' s broken half , which afford a compar easi float ; nor did it so exhaust him as the previou day ' s mishap . but when he wa help to the deck , all eye were fasten upon him ; as instead of stand by himself he still half - hung upon the shoulder of starbuck , who had thu far been the foremost to assist him . hi ivori leg had been snap off , leav but one short sharp splinter . `` aye , aye , starbuck , ' ti sweet to lean sometim , be the leaner who he will ; and would old ahab had lean often than he ha . '' `` the ferrul ha not stood , sir , '' said the carpent , now come up ; `` I put good work into that leg . '' `` but no bone broken , sir , I hope , '' said stubb with true concern . `` aye ! and all splinter to piec , stubb ! -- d ' ye see it . -- but even with a broken bone , old ahab is untouch ; and I account no live bone of mine one jot more me , than thi dead one that ' s lost . nor white whale , nor man , nor fiend , can so much as graze old ahab in hi own proper and inaccess be . can ani lead touch yonder floor , ani mast scrape yonder roof ? -- aloft there ! which way ? '' `` dead to leeward , sir . '' `` Up helm , then ; pile on the sail again , ship keeper ! down the rest of the spare boat and rig them -- Mr . starbuck away , and muster the boat ' s crew . '' `` let me first help thee toward the bulwark , sir . '' `` Oh , oh , oh ! how thi splinter gore me now ! accurs fate ! that the unconquer captain in the soul should have such a craven mate ! '' `` sir ? '' `` My bodi , man , not thee . give me someth for a cane -- there , that shiver lanc will do . muster the men . sure I have not seen him yet . By heaven it can not be ! -- miss ? -- quick ! call them all . '' the old man ' s hint thought wa true . upon muster the compani , the parse wa not there . `` the parse ! '' cri stubb -- '' he must have been caught in -- '' `` the black vomit wrench thee ! -- run all of ye abov , alow , cabin , forecastl -- find him -- not gone -- not gone ! '' but quickli they return to him with the tide that the parse wa nowher to be found . `` aye , sir , '' said stubb -- '' caught among the tangl of your line -- I thought I saw him drag under . '' `` MY line ! MY line ? gone ? -- gone ? what mean that littl word ? -- what death - knell ring in it , that old ahab shake as if he were the belfri . the harpoon , too ! -- toss over the litter there , -- d ' ye see it ? -- the forg iron , men , the white whale ' s -- no , no , no , -- blister fool ! thi hand did dart it ! -- ' ti in the fish ! -- aloft there ! keep him nail -- quick ! -- all hand to the rig of the boat -- collect the oar -- harpoon ! the iron , the iron ! -- hoist the royal higher -- a pull on all the sheet ! -- helm there ! steadi , steadi for your life ! I ' ll ten time girdl the unmeasur globe ; yea and dive straight through it , but I ' ll slay him yet ! `` great god ! but for one singl instant show thyself , '' cri starbuck ; `` never , never wilt thou captur him , old man -- In jesu ' name no more of thi , that ' s wors than devil ' s mad . two day chase ; twice stove to splinter ; thi veri leg onc more snatch from under thee ; thi evil shadow gone -- all good angel mob thee with warn : -- what more wouldst thou have ? -- shall we keep chase thi murder fish till he swamp the last man ? shall we be drag by him to the bottom of the sea ? shall we be tow by him to the infern world ? Oh , oh , -- impieti and blasphemi to hunt him more ! '' `` starbuck , of late I ' ve felt strang move to thee ; ever sinc that hour we both saw -- thou know ' st what , in one anoth ' s eye . but in thi matter of the whale , be the front of thi face to me as the palm of thi hand -- a lipless , unfeatur blank . ahab is for ever ahab , man . thi whole act ' s immut decre . ' twa rehears by thee and me a billion year befor thi ocean roll . fool ! I am the fate ' lieuten ; I act under order . look thou , underl ! that thou obeyest mine . -- stand round me , men . Ye see an old man cut down to the stump ; lean on a shiver lanc ; prop up on a lone foot . ' ti ahab -- hi bodi ' s part ; but ahab ' s soul ' s a centiped , that move upon a hundr leg . I feel strain , half strand , as rope that tow dismast frigat in a gale ; and I may look so . but ere I break , yell hear me crack ; and till ye hear that , know that ahab ' s hawser tow hi purpos yet . believ ye , men , in the thing call omen ? then laugh aloud , and cri encor ! for ere they drown , drown thing will twice rise to the surfac ; then rise again , to sink for evermor . So with mobi dick -- two day he ' s float -- tomorrow will be the third . aye , men , he ' ll rise onc more , -- but onli to spout hi last ! D ' ye feel brave men , brave ? '' `` As fearless fire , '' cri stubb . `` and as mechan , '' mutter ahab . then as the men went forward , he mutter on : `` the thing call omen ! and yesterday I talk the same to starbuck there , concern my broken boat . Oh ! how valiantli I seek to drive out of other ' heart what ' s clinch so fast in mine ! -- the parse -- the parse ! -- gone , gone ? and he wa to go befor : -- but still wa to be seen again ere I could perish -- how ' s that ? -- there ' s a riddl now might baffl all the lawyer back by the ghost of the whole line of judg : -- like a hawk ' s beak it peck my brain . I ' LL , I ' LL solv it , though ! '' when dusk descend , the whale wa still in sight to leeward . So onc more the sail wa shorten , and everyth pass nearli as on the previou night ; onli , the sound of hammer , and the hum of the grindston wa heard till nearli daylight , as the men toil by lantern in the complet and care rig of the spare boat and sharpen their fresh weapon for the morrow . meantim , of the broken keel of ahab ' s wreck craft the carpent made him anoth leg ; while still as on the night befor , slouch ahab stood fix within hi scuttl ; hi hid , heliotrop glanc anticipatingli gone backward on it dial ; sat due eastward for the earliest sun . chapter 135 the chase . -- third day . the morn of the third day dawn fair and fresh , and onc more the solitari night - man at the fore - mast - head wa reliev by crowd of the daylight look - out , who dot everi mast and almost everi spar . `` D ' ye see him ? '' cri ahab ; but the whale wa not yet in sight . `` In hi infal wake , though ; but follow that wake , that ' s all . helm there ; steadi , as thou goest , and hast been go . what a love day again ! were it a new - made world , and made for a summer - hous to the angel , and thi morn the first of it throw open to them , a fairer day could not dawn upon that world . here ' s food for thought , had ahab time to think ; but ahab never think ; he onli feel , feel , feel ; that ' S tingl enough for mortal man ! to think ' s audac . god onli ha that right and privileg . think is , or ought to be , a cool and a calm ; and our poor heart throb , and our poor brain beat too much for that . and yet , I ' ve sometim thought my brain wa veri calm -- frozen calm , thi old skull crack so , like a glass in which the content turn to ice , and shiver it . and still thi hair is grow now ; thi moment grow , and heat must breed it ; but no , it ' s like that sort of common grass that will grow anywher , between the earthi cleft of greenland ice or in vesuviu lava . how the wild wind blow it ; they whip it about me as the torn shred of split sail lash the toss ship they cling to . A vile wind that ha no doubt blown ere thi through prison corridor and cell , and ward of hospit , and ventil them , and now come blow hither as innoc as fleec . out upon it ! -- it ' s taint . were I the wind , I ' d blow no more on such a wick , miser world . I ' d crawl somewher to a cave , and slink there . and yet , ' ti a nobl and heroic thing , the wind ! who ever conquer it ? In everi fight it ha the last and bitterest blow . run tilt at it , and you but run through it . Ha ! a coward wind that strike stark nake men , but will not stand to receiv a singl blow . even ahab is a braver thing -- a nobler thing than that . would now the wind but had a bodi ; but all the thing that most exasper and outrag mortal man , all these thing are bodiless , but onli bodiless as object , not as agent . there ' s a most special , a most cun , oh , a most malici differ ! and yet , I say again , and swear it now , that there ' s someth all gloriou and graciou in the wind . these warm trade wind , at least , that in the clear heaven blow straight on , in strong and steadfast , vigor mild ; and veer not from their mark , howev the baser current of the sea may turn and tack , and mightiest mississippi of the land swift and swerv about , uncertain where to go at last . and by the etern pole ! these same trade that so directli blow my good ship on ; these trade , or someth like them -- someth so unchang , and full as strong , blow my keel soul along ! To it ! aloft there ! what d ' ye see ? '' `` noth , sir . '' `` noth ! and noon at hand ! the doubloon goe a - beg ! see the sun ! aye , aye , it must be so . I ' ve oversail him . how , got the start ? aye , he ' s chase ME now ; not I , him -- that ' s bad ; I might have known it , too . fool ! the line -- the harpoon he ' s tow . aye , aye , I have run him by last night . about ! about ! come down , all of ye , but the regular look out ! man the brace ! '' steer as she had done , the wind had been somewhat on the pequod ' s quarter , so that now be point in the revers direct , the brace ship sail hard upon the breez as she rechurn the cream in her own white wake . `` against the wind he now steer for the open jaw , '' murmur starbuck to himself , as he coil the new - haul main - brace upon the rail . `` god keep us , but alreadi my bone feel damp within me , and from the insid wet my flesh . I misdoubt me that I disobey my god in obey him ! '' `` stand by to sway me up ! '' cri ahab , advanc to the hempen basket . `` We should meet him soon . '' `` aye , aye , sir , '' and straightway starbuck did ahab ' s bid , and onc more ahab swung on high . A whole hour now pass ; gold - beaten out to age . time itself now held long breath with keen suspens . but at last , some three point off the weather bow , ahab descri the spout again , and instantli from the three mast - head three shriek went up as if the tongu of fire had voic it . `` forehead to forehead I meet thee , thi third time , mobi dick ! On deck there ! -- brace sharper up ; crowd her into the wind ' s eye . He ' s too far off to lower yet , Mr . starbuck . the sail shake ! stand over that helmsman with a top - maul ! So , so ; he travel fast , and I must down . but let me have one more good round look aloft here at the sea ; there ' s time for that . An old , old sight , and yet somehow so young ; aye , and not chang a wink sinc I first saw it , a boy , from the sand - hill of nantucket ! the same ! -- the same ! -- the same to noah as to me . there ' s a soft shower to leeward . such love leeward ! they must lead somewher -- to someth els than common land , more palmi than the palm . leeward ! the white whale goe that way ; look to windward , then ; the better if the bitter quarter . but good bye , good bye , old mast - head ! what ' s thi ? -- green ? aye , tini moss in these warp crack . No such green weather stain on ahab ' s head ! there ' s the differ now between man ' s old age and matter ' s . but aye , old mast , we both grow old togeth ; sound in our hull , though , are we not , my ship ? aye , minu a leg , that ' s all . By heaven thi dead wood ha the better of my live flesh everi way . I can ' t compar with it ; and I ' ve known some ship made of dead tree outlast the live of men made of the most vital stuff of vital father . what ' s that he said ? he should still go befor me , my pilot ; and yet to be seen again ? but where ? will I have eye at the bottom of the sea , suppos I descend those endless stair ? and all night I ' ve been sail from him , wherev he did sink to . aye , aye , like mani more thou told ' st dire truth as touch thyself , O parse ; but , ahab , there thi shot fell short . good - bye , mast - head -- keep a good eye upon the whale , the while I ' m gone . We ' ll talk to - morrow , nay , to - night , when the white whale lie down there , tie by head and tail . '' He gave the word ; and still gaze round him , wa steadili lower through the cloven blue air to the deck . In due time the boat were lower ; but as stand in hi shallop ' s stern , ahab just hover upon the point of the descent , he wave to the mate , -- who held one of the tackl - rope on deck -- and bade him paus . `` starbuck ! '' `` sir ? '' `` for the third time my soul ' s ship start upon thi voyag , starbuck . '' `` aye , sir , thou wilt have it so . '' `` some ship sail from their port , and ever afterward are miss , starbuck ! '' `` truth , sir : saddest truth . '' `` some men die at ebb tide ; some at low water ; some at the full of the flood ; -- and I feel now like a billow that ' s all one crest comb , starbuck . I am old ; -- shake hand with me , man . '' their hand met ; their eye fasten ; starbuck ' s tear the glue . `` Oh , my captain , my captain ! -- nobl heart -- go not -- go not ! -- see , it ' s a brave man that weep ; how great the agoni of the persuas then ! '' `` lower away ! '' -- cri ahab , toss the mate ' s arm from him . `` stand by the crew ! '' In an instant the boat wa pull round close under the stern . `` the shark ! the shark ! '' cri a voic from the low cabin - window there ; `` O master , my master , come back ! '' but ahab heard noth ; for hi own voic wa high - lift then ; and the boat leap on . yet the voic spake true ; for scarc had he push from the ship , when number of shark , seemingli rise from out the dark water beneath the hull , malici snap at the blade of the oar , everi time they dip in the water ; and in thi way accompani the boat with their bite . It is a thing not uncommonli happen to the whale - boat in those swarm sea ; the shark at time appar follow them in the same prescient way that vultur hover over the banner of march regiment in the east . but these were the first shark that had been observ by the pequod sinc the white whale had been first descri ; and whether it wa that ahab ' s crew were all such tiger - yellow barbarian , and therefor their flesh more muski to the sens of the shark -- a matter sometim well known to affect them , -- howev it wa , they seem to follow that one boat without molest the other . `` heart of wrought steel ! '' murmur starbuck gaze over the side , and follow with hi eye the reced boat -- '' canst thou yet ring boldli to that sight ? -- lower thi keel among raven shark , and follow by them , open - mouth to the chase ; and thi the critic third day ? -- for when three day flow togeth in one continu intens pursuit ; be sure the first is the morn , the second the noon , and the third the even and the end of that thing -- be that end what it may . Oh ! my god ! what is thi that shoot through me , and leav me so deadli calm , yet expect , -- fix at the top of a shudder ! futur thing swim befor me , as in empti outlin and skeleton ; all the past is somehow grown dim . mari , girl ! thou fadest in pale glori behind me ; boy ! I seem to see but thi eye grown wondrou blue . strangest problem of life seem clear ; but cloud sweep between -- Is my journey ' s end come ? My leg feel faint ; like hi who ha foot it all day . feel thi heart , -- beat it yet ? stir thyself , starbuck ! -- stave it off -- move , move ! speak aloud ! -- mast - head there ! see ye my boy ' s hand on the hill ? -- craze ; -- aloft there ! -- keep thi keenest eye upon the boat : -- mark well the whale ! -- Ho ! again ! -- drive off that hawk ! see ! he peck -- he tear the vane `` -- point to the red flag fli at the main - truck -- '' Ha ! he soar away with it ! -- where ' s the old man now ? see ' st thou that sight , oh ahab ! -- shudder , shudder ! '' the boat had not gone veri far , when by a signal from the mast - head -- a downward point arm , ahab knew that the whale had sound ; but intend to be near him at the next rise , he held on hi way a littl sideway from the vessel ; the becharm crew maintain the profoundest silenc , as the head - beat wave hammer and hammer against the oppos bow . `` drive , drive in your nail , oh ye wave ! to their uttermost head drive them in ! ye but strike a thing without a lid ; and no coffin and no hears can be mine : -- and hemp onli can kill me ! Ha ! ha ! '' suddenli the water around them slowli swell in broad circl ; then quickli upheav , as if sideway slide from a submerg berg of ice , swiftli rise to the surfac . A low rumbl sound wa heard ; a subterran hum ; and then all held their breath ; as bedraggl with trail rope , and harpoon , and lanc , a vast form shot lengthwis , but obliqu from the sea . shroud in a thin droop veil of mist , it hover for a moment in the rainbow air ; and then fell swamp back into the deep . crush thirti feet upward , the water flash for an instant like heap of fountain , then brokenli sank in a shower of flake , leav the circl surfac cream like new milk round the marbl trunk of the whale . `` give way ! '' cri ahab to the oarsmen , and the boat dart forward to the attack ; but madden by yesterday ' s fresh iron that corrod in him , mobi dick seem combinedli possess by all the angel that fell from heaven . the wide tier of weld tendon overspread hi broad white forehead , beneath the transpar skin , look knit togeth ; as head on , he came churn hi tail among the boat ; and onc more flail them apart ; spill out the iron and lanc from the two mate ' boat , and dash in one side of the upper part of their bow , but leav ahab ' s almost without a scar . while daggoo and queequeg were stop the strain plank ; and as the whale swim out from them , turn , and show one entir flank as he shot by them again ; at that moment a quick cri went up . lash round and round to the fish ' s back ; pinion in the turn upon turn in which , dure the past night , the whale had reel the involut of the line around him , the half torn bodi of the parse wa seen ; hi sabl raiment fray to shred ; hi distend eye turn full upon old ahab . the harpoon drop from hi hand . `` befool , befool ! '' -- draw in a long lean breath -- '' aye , parse ! I see thee again . -- aye , and thou goest befor ; and thi , thi then is the hears that thou didst promis . but I hold thee to the last letter of thi word . where is the second hears ? away , mate , to the ship ! those boat are useless now ; repair them if ye can in time , and return to me ; if not , ahab is enough to die -- down , men ! the first thing that but offer to jump from thi boat I stand in , that thing I harpoon . Ye are not other men , but my arm and my leg ; and so obey me . -- where ' s the whale ? gone down again ? '' but he look too nigh the boat ; for as if bent upon escap with the corps he bore , and as if the particular place of the last encount had been but a stage in hi leeward voyag , mobi dick wa now again steadili swim forward ; and had almost pass the ship , -- which thu far had been sail in the contrari direct to him , though for the present her headway had been stop . He seem swim with hi utmost veloc , and now onli intent upon pursu hi own straight path in the sea . `` Oh ! ahab , '' cri starbuck , `` not too late is it , even now , the third day , to desist . see ! mobi dick seek thee not . It is thou , thou , that madli seekest him ! '' set sail to the rise wind , the lone boat wa swiftli impel to leeward , by both oar and canva . and at last when ahab wa slide by the vessel , so near as plainli to distinguish starbuck ' s face as he lean over the rail , he hail him to turn the vessel about , and follow him , not too swiftli , at a judici interv . glanc upward , he saw tashtego , queequeg , and daggoo , eagerli mount to the three mast - head ; while the oarsmen were rock in the two stave boat which had but just been hoist to the side , and were busili at work in repair them . one after the other , through the port - hole , as he sped , he also caught fli glimps of stubb and flask , busi themselv on deck among bundl of new iron and lanc . As he saw all thi ; as he heard the hammer in the broken boat ; far other hammer seem drive a nail into hi heart . but he ralli . and now mark that the vane or flag wa gone from the main - mast - head , he shout to tashtego , who had just gain that perch , to descend again for anoth flag , and a hammer and nail , and so nail it to the mast . whether fag by the three day ' run chase , and the resist to hi swim in the knot hamper he bore ; or whether it wa some latent deceit and malic in him : whichev wa true , the white whale ' s way now began to abat , as it seem , from the boat so rapidli near him onc more ; though inde the whale ' s last start had not been so long a one as befor . and still as ahab glide over the wave the unpiti shark accompani him ; and so pertinaci stuck to the boat ; and so continu bit at the pli oar , that the blade becam jag and crunch , and left small splinter in the sea , at almost everi dip . `` heed them not ! those teeth but give new rowlock to your oar . pull on ! ' ti the better rest , the shark ' s jaw than the yield water . '' `` but at everi bite , sir , the thin blade grow smaller and smaller ! '' `` they will last long enough ! pull on ! -- but who can tell `` -- he mutter -- '' whether these shark swim to feast on the whale or on ahab ? -- but pull on ! aye , all aliv , now -- we near him . the helm ! take the helm ! let me pass , '' -- and so say two of the oarsmen help him forward to the bow of the still fli boat . At length as the craft wa cast to one side , and ran rang along with the white whale ' s flank , he seem strang oblivi of it advanc -- as the whale sometim will -- and ahab wa fairli within the smoki mountain mist , which , thrown off from the whale ' s spout , curl round hi great , monadnock hump ; he wa even thu close to him ; when , with bodi arch back , and both arm lengthwis high - lift to the pois , he dart hi fierc iron , and hi far fiercer curs into the hate whale . As both steel and curs sank to the socket , as if suck into a morass , mobi dick sideway writh ; spasmod roll hi nigh flank against the bow , and , without stave a hole in it , so suddenli cant the boat over , that had it not been for the elev part of the gunwal to which he then clung , ahab would onc more have been toss into the sea . As it wa , three of the oarsmen -- who foreknew not the precis instant of the dart , and were therefor unprepar for it effect -- these were flung out ; but so fell , that , in an instant two of them clutch the gunwal again , and rise to it level on a comb wave , hurl themselv bodili inboard again ; the third man helplessli drop astern , but still afloat and swim . almost simultan , with a mighti volit of ungradu , instantan swift , the white whale dart through the welter sea . but when ahab cri out to the steersman to take new turn with the line , and hold it so ; and command the crew to turn round on their seat , and tow the boat up to the mark ; the moment the treacher line felt that doubl strain and tug , it snap in the empti air ! `` what break in me ? some sinew crack ! -- ' ti whole again ; oar ! oar ! burst in upon him ! '' hear the tremend rush of the sea - crash boat , the whale wheel round to present hi blank forehead at bay ; but in that evolut , catch sight of the near black hull of the ship ; seemingli see in it the sourc of all hi persecut ; bethink it -- it may be -- a larger and nobler foe ; of a sudden , he bore down upon it advanc prow , smite hi jaw amid fieri shower of foam . ahab stagger ; hi hand smote hi forehead . `` I grow blind ; hand ! stretch out befor me that I may yet grope my way . Is ' t night ? '' `` the whale ! the ship ! '' cri the cring oarsmen . `` oar ! oar ! slope downward to thi depth , O sea , that ere it be for ever too late , ahab may slide thi last , last time upon hi mark ! I see : the ship ! the ship ! dash on , my men ! will ye not save my ship ? '' but as the oarsmen violent forc their boat through the sledg - hammer sea , the befor whale - smitten bow - end of two plank burst through , and in an instant almost , the temporarili disabl boat lay nearli level with the wave ; it half - wade , splash crew , tri hard to stop the gap and bale out the pour water . meantim , for that one behold instant , tashtego ' s mast - head hammer remain suspend in hi hand ; and the red flag , half - wrap him as with a plaid , then stream itself straight out from him , as hi own forward - flow heart ; while starbuck and stubb , stand upon the bowsprit beneath , caught sight of the down - come monster just as soon as he . `` the whale , the whale ! Up helm , up helm ! Oh , all ye sweet power of air , now hug me close ! let not starbuck die , if die he must , in a woman ' s faint fit . Up helm , I say -- ye fool , the jaw ! the jaw ! Is thi the end of all my burst prayer ? all my life - long fidel ? Oh , ahab , ahab , lo , thi work . steadi ! helmsman , steadi . nay , nay ! Up helm again ! He turn to meet us ! Oh , hi unappeas brow drive on toward one , whose duti tell him he can not depart . My god , stand by me now ! '' `` stand not by me , but stand under me , whoever you are that will now help stubb ; for stubb , too , stick here . I grin at thee , thou grin whale ! who ever help stubb , or kept stubb awak , but stubb ' s own unwink eye ? and now poor stubb goe to bed upon a mattrass that is all too soft ; would it were stuf with brushwood ! I grin at thee , thou grin whale ! look ye , sun , moon , and star ! I call ye assassin of as good a fellow as ever spout up hi ghost . for all that , I would yet ring glass with ye , would ye but hand the cup ! Oh , oh ! oh , oh ! thou grin whale , but there ' ll be plenti of gulp soon ! whi fli ye not , O ahab ! for me , off shoe and jacket to it ; let stubb die in hi drawer ! A most mouldi and over salt death , though ; -- cherri ! cherri ! cherri ! Oh , flask , for one red cherri ere we die ! '' `` cherri ? I onli wish that we were where they grow . Oh , stubb , I hope my poor mother ' s drawn my part - pay ere thi ; if not , few copper will now come to her , for the voyag is up . '' from the ship ' s bow , nearli all the seamen now hung inact ; hammer , bit of plank , lanc , and harpoon , mechan retain in their hand , just as they had dart from their variou employ ; all their enchant eye intent upon the whale , which from side to side strang vibrat hi predestin head , sent a broad band of overspread semicircular foam befor him as he rush . retribut , swift vengeanc , etern malic were in hi whole aspect , and spite of all that mortal man could do , the solid white buttress of hi forehead smote the ship ' s starboard bow , till men and timber reel . some fell flat upon their face . like dislodg truck , the head of the harpoon aloft shook on their bull - like neck . through the breach , they heard the water pour , as mountain torrent down a flume . `` the ship ! the hears ! -- the second hears ! '' cri ahab from the boat ; `` it wood could onli be american ! '' dive beneath the settl ship , the whale ran quiver along it keel ; but turn under water , swiftli shot to the surfac again , far off the other bow , but within a few yard of ahab ' s boat , where , for a time , he lay quiescent . `` I turn my bodi from the sun . what ho , tashtego ! let me hear thi hammer . Oh ! ye three unsurrend spire of mine ; thou uncrack keel ; and onli god - bulli hull ; thou firm deck , and haughti helm , and pole - point prow , -- death - gloriou ship ! must ye then perish , and without me ? Am I cut off from the last fond pride of meanest shipwreck captain ? Oh , lone death on lone life ! Oh , now I feel my topmost great lie in my topmost grief . Ho , ho ! from all your furthest bound , pour ye now in , ye bold billow of my whole foregon life , and top thi one pile comber of my death ! toward thee I roll , thou all - destroy but unconqu whale ; to the last I grappl with thee ; from hell ' s heart I stab at thee ; for hate ' s sake I spit my last breath at thee . sink all coffin and all hears to one common pool ! and sinc neither can be mine , let me then tow to piec , while still chase thee , though tie to thee , thou damn whale ! thu , I give up the spear ! '' the harpoon wa dart ; the stricken whale flew forward ; with ignit veloc the line ran through the groov ; -- ran foul . ahab stoop to clear it ; he did clear it ; but the fli turn caught him round the neck , and voicelessli as turkish mute bowstr their victim , he wa shot out of the boat , ere the crew knew he wa gone . next instant , the heavi eye - splice in the rope ' s final end flew out of the stark - empti tub , knock down an oarsman , and smite the sea , disappear in it depth . for an instant , the tranc boat ' s crew stood still ; then turn . `` the ship ? great god , where is the ship ? '' soon they through dim , bewild medium saw her sidelong fade phantom , as in the gaseou fata morgana ; onli the uppermost mast out of water ; while fix by infatu , or fidel , or fate , to their onc lofti perch , the pagan harpoon still maintain their sink lookout on the sea . and now , concentr circl seiz the lone boat itself , and all it crew , and each float oar , and everi lanc - pole , and spin , anim and inanim , all round and round in one vortex , carri the smallest chip of the pequod out of sight . but as the last whelm intermixingli pour themselv over the sunken head of the indian at the mainmast , leav a few inch of the erect spar yet visibl , togeth with long stream yard of the flag , which calmli undul , with iron coincid , over the destroy billow they almost touch ; -- at that instant , a red arm and a hammer hover backwardli uplift in the open air , in the act of nail the flag faster and yet faster to the subsid spar . A sky - hawk that tauntingli had follow the main - truck downward from it natur home among the star , peck at the flag , and incommod tashtego there ; thi bird now chanc to intercept it broad flutter wing between the hammer and the wood ; and simultan feel that etheri thrill , the submerg savag beneath , in hi death - gasp , kept hi hammer frozen there ; and so the bird of heaven , with archangel shriek , and hi imperi beak thrust upward , and hi whole captiv form fold in the flag of ahab , went down with hi ship , which , like satan , would not sink to hell till she had drag a live part of heaven along with her , and helmet herself with it . now small fowl flew scream over the yet yawn gulf ; a sullen white surf beat against it steep side ; then all collaps , and the great shroud of the sea roll on as it roll five thousand year ago . epilogu `` and I onli AM escap alon TO tell thee `` job . the drama ' s done . whi then here doe ani one step forth ? -- becaus one did surviv the wreck . It so chanc , that after the parse ' s disappear , I wa he whom the fate ordain to take the place of ahab ' s bowsman , when that bowsman assum the vacant post ; the same , who , when on the last day the three men were toss from out of the rock boat , wa drop astern . So , float on the margin of the ensu scene , and in full sight of it , when the halfspent suction of the sunk ship reach me , I wa then , but slowli , drawn toward the close vortex . when I reach it , it had subsid to a creami pool . round and round , then , and ever contract toward the button - like black bubbl at the axi of that slowli wheel circl , like anoth ixion I did revolv . till , gain that vital centr , the black bubbl upward burst ; and now , liber by reason of it cun spring , and , owe to it great buoyanc , rise with great forc , the coffin life - buoy shot lengthwis from the sea , fell over , and float by my side . buoy up by that coffin , for almost one whole day and night , I float on a soft and dirgelik main . the unharm shark , they glide by as if with padlock on their mouth ; the savag sea - hawk sail with sheath beak . On the second day , a sail drew near , nearer , and pick me up at last . It wa the deviou - cruis rachel , that in her retrac search after her miss children , onli found anoth orphan . [ mobi dick by herman melvil 1851 ] etymolog . ( suppli by a late consumpt usher to a grammar school ) the pale usher -- threadbar in coat , heart , bodi , and brain ; I see him now . He wa ever dust hi old lexicon and grammar , with a queer handkerchief , mockingli embellish with all the gay flag of all the known nation of the world . He love to dust hi old grammar ; it somehow mildli remind him of hi mortal . `` while you take in hand to school other , and to teach them by what name a whale - fish is to be call in our tongu leav out , through ignor , the letter H , which almost alon maketh the signif of the word , you deliv that which is not true . '' -- hackluyt `` whale . ... Sw . and dan . hval . thi anim is name from round or roll ; for in dan . hvalt is arch or vault . '' -- webster ' S dictionari `` whale . ... It is more immedi from the dut . and ger . wallen ; A . S . walw - ian , to roll , to wallow . '' -- richardson ' S dictionari keto , greek . cetu , latin . whoel , anglo - saxon . hvalt , danish . wal , dutch . hwal , swedish . whale , iceland . whale , english . balein , french . ballena , spanish . peke - nuee - nuee , fege . peke - nuee - nuee , erromangoan . extract ( suppli by a sub - sub - librarian ) . It will be seen that thi mere painstak burrow and grub - worm of a poor devil of a sub - sub appear to have gone through the long vatican and street - stall of the earth , pick up whatev random allus to whale he could anyway find in ani book whatsoev , sacr or profan . therefor you must not , in everi case at least , take the higgledi - piggledi whale statement , howev authent , in these extract , for verit gospel cetolog . far from it . As touch the ancient author gener , as well as the poet here appear , these extract are sole valuabl or entertain , as afford a glanc bird ' s eye view of what ha been promiscu said , thought , fanci , and sung of leviathan , by mani nation and gener , includ our own . So fare thee well , poor devil of a sub - sub , whose comment I am . thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of thi world will ever warm ; and for whom even pale sherri would be too rosi - strong ; but with whom one sometim love to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivi upon tear ; and say to them bluntli , with full eye and empti glass , and in not altogeth unpleas sad -- give it up , sub - sub ! for by how much the more pain ye take to pleas the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! would that I could clear out hampton court and the tuileri for ye ! but gulp down your tear and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your heart ; for your friend who have gone befor are clear out the seven - stori heaven , and make refuge of long - pamper gabriel , michael , and raphael , against your come . here ye strike but splinter heart togeth -- there , ye shall strike unsplinter glass ! extract . `` and god creat great whale . '' -- genesi . `` leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; one would think the deep to be hoari . '' -- job . `` now the lord had prepar a great fish to swallow up jonah . '' -- jonah . `` there go the ship ; there is that leviathan whom thou hast made to play therein . '' -- psalm . `` In that day , the lord with hi sore , and great , and strong sword , shall punish leviathan the pierc serpent , even leviathan that crook serpent ; and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea . '' -- isaiah `` and what thing soever besid cometh within the chao of thi monster ' s mouth , be it beast , boat , or stone , down it goe all incontin that foul great swallow of hi , and perisheth in the bottomless gulf of hi paunch . '' -- holland ' S plutarch ' S moral . `` the indian sea breedeth the most and the biggest fish that are : among which the whale and whirlpool call balaen , take up as much in length as four acr or arpen of land . '' -- holland ' S plini . `` scarc had we proceed two day on the sea , when about sunris a great mani whale and other monster of the sea , appear . among the former , one wa of a most monstrou size . ... thi came toward us , open - mouth , rais the wave on all side , and beat the sea befor him into a foam . '' -- took ' S lucian . `` the true histori . '' `` He visit thi countri also with a view of catch hors - whale , which had bone of veri great valu for their teeth , of which he brought some to the king . ... the best whale were catch in hi own countri , of which some were forti - eight , some fifti yard long . He said that he wa one of six who had kill sixti in two day . '' -- other OR octher ' S verbal narr taken down from hi mouth BY king alfr , A . D . 890 . `` and wherea all the other thing , whether beast or vessel , that enter into the dread gulf of thi monster ' s ( whale ' s ) mouth , are immedi lost and swallow up , the sea - gudgeon retir into it in great secur , and there sleep . '' -- montaign . -- apolog for raimond sebond . `` let us fli , let us fli ! old nick take me if is not leviathan describ by the nobl prophet mose in the life of patient job . '' -- rabelai . `` thi whale ' s liver wa two cartload . '' -- stow ' S annal . `` the great leviathan that maketh the sea to seeth like boil pan . '' -- lord bacon ' S version OF the psalm . `` touch that monstrou bulk of the whale or ork we have receiv noth certain . they grow exceed fat , insomuch that an incred quantiti of oil will be extract out of one whale . '' -- ibid . `` histori OF life and death . '' `` the sovereignest thing on earth is parmacetti for an inward bruis . '' -- king henri . `` veri like a whale . '' -- hamlet . `` which to secur , no skill of leach ' s art mote him avail , but to return again To hi wound ' s worker , that with lowli dart , dint hi breast , had bred hi restless pain , like as the wound whale to shore fli thro ' the main . '' -- the faeri queen . `` immens as whale , the motion of whose vast bodi can in a peac calm troubl the ocean til it boil . '' -- sir william daven . prefac TO gondibert . `` what spermacetti is , men might justli doubt , sinc the learn hosmannu in hi work of thirti year , saith plainli , nescio quid sit . '' -- sir T . brown . OF sperma ceti and the sperma ceti whale . vide hi V . E . `` like spencer ' s talu with hi modern flail He threaten ruin with hi ponder tail . ... their fix jav ' lin in hi side he wear , and on hi back a grove of pike appear . '' -- waller ' S battl OF the summer island . `` By art is creat that great leviathan , call a commonwealth or state -- ( in latin , civita ) which is but an artifici man . '' -- open sentenc OF hobb ' S leviathan . `` silli mansoul swallow it without chew , as if it had been a sprat in the mouth of a whale . '' -- pilgrim ' S progress . `` that sea beast leviathan , which god of all hi work creat hugest that swim the ocean stream . '' -- paradis lost . -- - '' there leviathan , hugest of live creatur , in the deep stretch like a promontori sleep or swim , and seem a move land ; and at hi gill draw in , and at hi breath spout out a sea . '' -- ibid . `` the mighti whale which swim in a sea of water , and have a sea of oil swim in them . '' -- fulller ' S profan and holi state . `` So close behind some promontori lie the huge leviathan to attend their prey , and give no chanc , but swallow in the fri , which through their gape jaw mistak the way . '' -- dryden ' S annu mirabili . `` while the whale is float at the stern of the ship , they cut off hi head , and tow it with a boat as near the shore as it will come ; but it will be aground in twelv or thirteen feet water . '' -- thoma edg ' S ten voyag TO spitzbergen , IN purcha . `` In their way they saw mani whale sport in the ocean , and in wanton fuzz up the water through their pipe and vent , which natur ha place on their shoulder . '' -- sir T . herbert ' S voyag into asia and africa . harri coll . `` here they saw such huge troop of whale , that they were forc to proceed with a great deal of caution for fear they should run their ship upon them . '' -- schouten ' S sixth circumnavig . `` We set sail from the elb , wind N . E . in the ship call the jona - in - the - whale . ... some say the whale can ' t open hi mouth , but that is a fabl . ... they frequent climb up the mast to see whether they can see a whale , for the first discover ha a ducat for hi pain . ... I wa told of a whale taken near shetland , that had abov a barrel of her in hi belli . ... one of our harpoon told me that he caught onc a whale in spitzbergen that wa white all over . '' -- A voyag TO greenland , A . D . 1671 harri coll . `` sever whale have come in upon thi coast ( fife ) anno 1652 , one eighti feet in length of the whale - bone kind came in , which ( as I wa inform ) , besid a vast quantiti of oil , did afford 500 weight of baleen . the jaw of it stand for a gate in the garden of pitferren . '' -- sibbald ' S fife and kinross . `` myself have agre to tri whether I can master and kill thi sperma - ceti whale , for I could never hear of ani of that sort that wa kill by ani man , such is hi fierc and swift . '' -- richard strafford ' S letter from the bermuda . phil . tran . A . D . 1668 . `` whale in the sea god ' s voic obey . '' -- N . E . primer . `` We saw also abund of larg whale , there be more in those southern sea , as I may say , by a hundr to one ; than we have to the northward of us . '' -- captain cowley ' S voyag round the globe , A . D . 1729 . `` ... and the breath of the whale is frequendi attend with such an insupport smell , as to bring on a disord of the brain . '' -- ulloa ' S south america . `` To fifti chosen sylph of special note , We trust the import charg , the petticoat . oft have we known that seven - fold fenc to fail , tho ' stuf with hoop and arm with rib of whale . '' -- rape OF the lock . `` If we compar land anim in respect to magnitud , with those that take up their abod in the deep , we shall find they will appear contempt in the comparison . the whale is doubtless the largest anim in creation . '' -- goldsmith , nat . hist . `` If you should write a fabl for littl fish , you would make them speak like great wale . '' -- goldsmith TO johnson . `` In the afternoon we saw what wa suppos to be a rock , but it wa found to be a dead whale , which some asiat had kill , and were then tow ashor . they seem to endeavor to conceal themselv behind the whale , in order to avoid be seen by us . '' -- cook ' S voyag . `` the larger whale , they seldom ventur to attack . they stand in so great dread of some of them , that when out at sea they are afraid to mention even their name , and carri dung , lime - stone , junip - wood , and some other articl of the same natur in their boat , in order to terrifi and prevent their too near approach . '' -- uno von troil ' S letter ON bank ' S and soland ' S voyag TO iceland IN 1772 . `` the spermacetti whale found by the nantuckoi , is an activ , fierc anim , and requir vast address and bold in the fishermen . '' -- thoma jefferson ' S whale memori TO the french minist IN 1778 . `` and pray , sir , what in the world is equal to it ? '' -- edmund burk ' S refer IN parliament TO the nantucket whale - fisheri . `` spain -- a great whale strand on the shore of europ . '' -- edmund burk . ( somewher . ) `` A tenth branch of the king ' s ordinari revenu , said to be ground on the consider of hi guard and protect the sea from pirat and robber , is the right to royal fish , which are whale and sturgeon . and these , when either thrown ashor or caught near the coast , are the properti of the king . '' -- blackston . `` soon to the sport of death the crew repair : rodmond uner o ' er hi head suspend the barb steel , and everi turn attend . '' -- falcon ' S shipwreck . `` bright shone the roof , the dome , the spire , and rocket blew self driven , To hang their momentari fire around the vault of heaven . `` So fire with water to compar , the ocean serv on high , Up - spout by a whale in air , To express unwieldi joy . '' -- cowper , ON the queen ' S visit TO london . `` ten or fifteen gallon of blood are thrown out of the heart at a stroke , with immens veloc . '' -- john hunter ' S account OF the dissect OF A whale . ( A small size one . ) `` the aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - work at london bridg , and the water roar in it passag through that pipe is inferior in impetu and veloc to the blood gush from the whale ' s heart . '' -- paley ' S theolog . `` the whale is a mammifer anim without hind feet . '' -- baron cuvier . `` In 40 degre south , we saw spermacetti whale , but did not take ani till the first of may , the sea be then cover with them . '' -- colnett ' S voyag for the purpos OF extend the spermaceti whale fisheri . `` In the free element beneath me swam , flounder and dive , in play , in chace , in battl , fish of everi colour , form , and kind ; which languag can not paint , and marin had never seen ; from dread leviathan To insect million peopl everi wave : gather ' d in shoal immens , like float island , led by mysteri instinct through that wast and trackless region , though on everi side assault by voraci enemi , whale , shark , and monster , arm ' d in front or jaw , with sword , saw , spiral horn , or hook fang . '' -- montgomeri ' S world befor the flood . `` Io ! paean ! Io ! sing . To the finni peopl ' s king . not a mightier whale than thi In the vast atlant is ; not a fatter fish than he , flounder round the polar sea . '' -- charl lamb ' S triumph OF the whale . `` In the year 1690 some person were on a high hill observ the whale spout and sport with each other , when one observ : there -- point to the sea -- is a green pastur where our children ' s grand - children will go for bread . '' -- obe maci ' S histori OF nantucket . `` I built a cottag for susan and myself and made a gateway in the form of a gothic arch , by set up a whale ' s jaw bone . '' -- hawthorn ' S twice told tale . `` she came to bespeak a monument for her first love , who had been kill by a whale in the pacif ocean , no less than forti year ago . '' -- ibid . `` No , sir , ' ti a right whale , '' answer tom ; `` I saw hi sprout ; he threw up a pair of as pretti rainbow as a christian would wish to look at . He ' s a raal oil - butt , that fellow ! '' -- cooper ' S pilot . `` the paper were brought in , and we saw in the berlin gazett that whale had been introduc on the stage there . '' -- eckermann ' S convers with goeth . `` My god ! Mr . chace , what is the matter ? '' I answer , `` we have been stove by a whale . '' -- '' narr OF the shipwreck OF the whale ship essex OF nantucket , which wa attack and final destroy BY A larg sperm whale IN the pacif ocean . '' BY owen chace OF nantucket , first mate OF said vessel . new york , 1821 . `` A marin sat in the shroud one night , the wind wa pipe free ; now bright , now dim , wa the moonlight pale , and the phospher gleam in the wake of the whale , As it flounder in the sea . '' -- elizabeth oak smith . `` the quantiti of line withdrawn from the boat engag in the captur of thi one whale , amount altogeth to 10 , 440 yard or nearli six english mile . ... `` sometim the whale shake it tremend tail in the air , which , crack like a whip , resound to the distanc of three or four mile . '' -- scoresbi . `` mad with the agoni he endur from these fresh attack , the infuri sperm whale roll over and over ; he rear hi enorm head , and with wide expand jaw snap at everyth around him ; he rush at the boat with hi head ; they are propel befor him with vast swift , and sometim utterli destroy . ... It is a matter of great astonish that the consider of the habit of so interest , and , in a commerci point of view , so import an anim ( as the sperm whale ) should have been so entir neglect , or should have excit so littl curios among the numer , and mani of them compet observ , that of late year , must have possess the most abund and the most conveni opportun of wit their habitud . '' -- thoma beal ' S histori OF the sperm whale , 1839 . `` the cachalot `` ( sperm whale ) `` is not onli better arm than the true whale `` ( greenland or right whale ) `` in possess a formid weapon at either extrem of it bodi , but also more frequent display a disposit to employ these weapon offens and in manner at onc so art , bold , and mischiev , as to lead to it be regard as the most danger to attack of all the known speci of the whale tribe . '' -- frederick debel bennett ' S whale voyag round the globe , 1840 . octob 13 . `` there she blow , '' wa sung out from the mast - head . `` where away ? '' demand the captain . `` three point off the lee bow , sir . '' `` rais up your wheel . steadi ! '' `` steadi , sir . '' `` mast - head ahoy ! Do you see that whale now ? '' `` Ay ay , sir ! A shoal of sperm whale ! there she blow ! there she breach ! '' `` sing out ! sing out everi time ! '' `` Ay Ay , sir ! there she blow ! there -- there -- thar she blow -- bow -- bo - o - os ! '' `` how far off ? '' `` two mile and a half . '' `` thunder and lightn ! so near ! call all hand . '' -- J . ross brown ' S etch OF A whale cruiz . 1846 . `` the whale - ship globe , on board of which vessel occur the horrid transact we are about to relat , belong to the island of nantucket . '' -- '' narr OF the globe , '' BY lay and hussey survivor . A . D . 1828 . be onc pursu by a whale which he had wound , he parri the assault for some time with a lanc ; but the furiou monster at length rush on the boat ; himself and comrad onli be preserv by leap into the water when they saw the onset wa inevit . '' -- missionari journal OF tyerman and bennett . `` nantucket itself , '' said Mr . webster , `` is a veri strike and peculiar portion of the nation interest . there is a popul of eight or nine thousand person live here in the sea , ad larg everi year to the nation wealth by the boldest and most persev industri . '' -- report OF daniel webster ' S speech IN the U . S . senat , ON the applic for the erect OF A breakwat AT nantucket . 1828 . `` the whale fell directli over him , and probabl kill him in a moment . '' -- '' the whale and hi captor , OR the whaleman ' S adventur and the whale ' S biographi , gather ON the homeward cruis OF the commodor prebl . '' BY rev . henri T . cheever . `` If you make the least damn bit of nois , '' repli samuel , `` I will send you to hell . '' -- life OF samuel comstock ( the mutin ) , BY hi brother , william comstock . anoth version OF the whale - ship globe narr . `` the voyag of the dutch and english to the northern ocean , in order , if possibl , to discov a passag through it to india , though they fail of their main object , laid - open the haunt of the whale . '' -- mcculloch ' S commerci dictionari . `` these thing are reciproc ; the ball rebound , onli to bound forward again ; for now in lay open the haunt of the whale , the whalemen seem to have indirectli hit upon new clew to that same mystic north - west passag . '' -- from `` someth `` unpublish . `` It is imposs to meet a whale - ship on the ocean without be struck by her near appear . the vessel under short sail , with look - out at the mast - head , eagerli scan the wide expans around them , ha a total differ air from those engag in regular voyag . '' -- current and whale . U . S . EX . EX . `` pedestrian in the vicin of london and elsewher may recollect have seen larg curv bone set upright in the earth , either to form arch over gateway , or entranc to alcov , and they may perhap have been told that these were the rib of whale . '' -- tale OF A whale voyag TO the arctic ocean . `` It wa not till the boat return from the pursuit of these whale , that the white saw their ship in bloodi possess of the savag enrol among the crew . '' -- newspap account OF the take and retak OF the whale - ship hobomack . `` It is gener well known that out of the crew of whale vessel ( american ) few ever return in the ship on board of which they depart . '' -- cruis IN A whale boat . `` suddenli a mighti mass emerg from the water , and shot up perpendicularli into the air . It wa the while . '' -- miriam coffin OR the whale fisherman . `` the whale is harpoon to be sure ; but bethink you , how you would manag a power unbroken colt , with the mere applianc of a rope tie to the root of hi tail . '' -- A chapter ON whale IN rib and truck . `` On one occas I saw two of these monster ( whale ) probabl male and femal , slowli swim , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore `` ( terra del fuego ) , `` over which the beech tree extend it branch . '' -- darwin ' S voyag OF A naturalist . `` ' stern all ! ' exclaim the mate , as upon turn hi head , he saw the distend jaw of a larg sperm whale close to the head of the boat , threaten it with instant destruct ; -- ' stern all , for your live ! ' '' -- wharton the whale killer . `` So be cheeri , my lad , let your heart never fail , while the bold harpoon is strike the whale ! '' -- nantucket song . `` Oh , the rare old whale , mid storm and gale In hi ocean home will be A giant in might , where might is right , and king of the boundless sea . '' -- whale song . chapter 1 loom . call me ishmael . some year ago -- never mind how long precis -- have littl or no money in my purs , and noth particular to interest me on shore , I thought I would sail about a littl and see the wateri part of the world . It is a way I have of drive off the spleen and regul the circul . whenev I find myself grow grim about the mouth ; whenev it is a damp , drizzli novemb in my soul ; whenev I find myself involuntarili paus befor coffin warehous , and bring up the rear of everi funer I meet ; and especi whenev my hypo get such an upper hand of me , that it requir a strong moral principl to prevent me from deliber step into the street , and method knock peopl ' s hat off -- then , I account it high time to get to sea as soon as I can . thi is my substitut for pistol and ball . with a philosoph flourish cato throw himself upon hi sword ; I quietli take to the ship . there is noth surpris in thi . If they but knew it , almost all men in their degre , some time or other , cherish veri nearli the same feel toward the ocean with me . there now is your insular citi of the manhatto , belt round by wharv as indian isl by coral reef -- commerc surround it with her surf . right and left , the street take you waterward . it extrem downtown is the batteri , where that nobl mole is wash by wave , and cool by breez , which a few hour previou were out of sight of land . look at the crowd of water - gazer there . circumambul the citi of a dreami sabbath afternoon . Go from corlear hook to coenti slip , and from thenc , by whitehal , northward . what do you see ? -- post like silent sentinel all around the town , stand thousand upon thousand of mortal men fix in ocean reveri . some lean against the spile ; some seat upon the pier - head ; some look over the bulwark of ship from china ; some high aloft in the rig , as if strive to get a still better seaward peep . but these are all landsmen ; of week day pent up in lath and plaster -- tie to counter , nail to bench , clinch to desk . how then is thi ? are the green field gone ? what do they here ? but look ! here come more crowd , pace straight for the water , and seemingli bound for a dive . strang ! noth will content them but the extremest limit of the land ; loiter under the shadi lee of yonder warehous will not suffic . No . they must get just as nigh the water as they possibl can without fall in . and there they stand -- mile of them -- leagu . inland all , they come from lane and alley , street and avenu -- north , east , south , and west . yet here they all unit . tell me , doe the magnet virtu of the needl of the compass of all those ship attract them thither ? onc more . say you are in the countri ; in some high land of lake . take almost ani path you pleas , and ten to one it carri you down in a dale , and leav you there by a pool in the stream . there is magic in it . let the most absent - mind of men be plung in hi deepest reveri -- stand that man on hi leg , set hi feet a - go , and he will infal lead you to water , if water there be in all that region . should you ever be athirst in the great american desert , tri thi experi , if your caravan happen to be suppli with a metaphys professor . ye , as everi one know , medit and water are wed for ever . but here is an artist . He desir to paint you the dreamiest , shadiest , quietest , most enchant bit of romant landscap in all the valley of the saco . what is the chief element he employ ? there stand hi tree , each with a hollow trunk , as if a hermit and a crucifix were within ; and here sleep hi meadow , and there sleep hi cattl ; and up from yonder cottag goe a sleepi smoke . deep into distant woodland wind a mazi way , reach to overlap spur of mountain bath in their hill - side blue . but though the pictur lie thu tranc , and though thi pine - tree shake down it sigh like leav upon thi shepherd ' s head , yet all were vain , unless the shepherd ' s eye were fix upon the magic stream befor him . Go visit the prairi in june , when for score on score of mile you wade knee - deep among tiger - lili -- what is the one charm want ? -- water -- there is not a drop of water there ! were niagara but a cataract of sand , would you travel your thousand mile to see it ? whi did the poor poet of tennesse , upon suddenli receiv two hand of silver , deliber whether to buy him a coat , which he sadli need , or invest hi money in a pedestrian trip to rockaway beach ? whi is almost everi robust healthi boy with a robust healthi soul in him , at some time or other crazi to go to sea ? whi upon your first voyag as a passeng , did you yourself feel such a mystic vibrat , when first told that you and your ship were now out of sight of land ? whi did the old persian hold the sea holi ? whi did the greek give it a separ deiti , and own brother of jove ? sure all thi is not without mean . and still deeper the mean of that stori of narcissu , who becaus he could not grasp the torment , mild imag he saw in the fountain , plung into it and wa drown . but that same imag , we ourselv see in all river and ocean . It is the imag of the ungrasp phantom of life ; and thi is the key to it all . now , when I say that I am in the habit of go to sea whenev I begin to grow hazi about the eye , and begin to be over consciou of my lung , I do not mean to have it infer that I ever go to sea as a passeng . for to go as a passeng you must need have a purs , and a purs is but a rag unless you have someth in it . besid , passeng get sea - sick -- grow quarrelsom -- don ' t sleep of night -- do not enjoy themselv much , as a gener thing ; -- no , I never go as a passeng ; nor , though I am someth of a salt , do I ever go to sea as a commodor , or a captain , or a cook . I abandon the glori and distinct of such offic to those who like them . for my part , I abomin all honour respect toil , trial , and tribul of everi kind whatsoev . It is quit as much as I can do to take care of myself , without take care of ship , barqu , brig , schooner , and what not . and as for go as cook , -- though I confess there is consider glori in that , a cook be a sort of offic on ship - board -- yet , somehow , I never fanci broil fowl ; -- though onc broil , judici butter , and judgmat salt and pepper , there is no one who will speak more respect , not to say reverenti , of a broil fowl than I will . It is out of the idolatr dote of the old egyptian upon broil ibi and roast river hors , that you see the mummi of those creatur in their huge bake - hous the pyramid . No , when I go to sea , I go as a simpl sailor , right befor the mast , plumb down into the forecastl , aloft there to the royal mast - head . true , they rather order me about some , and make me jump from spar to spar , like a grasshopp in a may meadow . and at first , thi sort of thing is unpleas enough . It touch one ' s sens of honour , particularli if you come of an old establish famili in the land , the van renssela , or randolph , or hardicanut . and more than all , if just previou to put your hand into the tar - pot , you have been lord it as a countri schoolmast , make the tallest boy stand in awe of you . the transit is a keen one , I assur you , from a schoolmast to a sailor , and requir a strong decoct of seneca and the stoic to enabl you to grin and bear it . but even thi wear off in time . what of it , if some old hunk of a sea - captain order me to get a broom and sweep down the deck ? what doe that indign amount to , weigh , I mean , in the scale of the new testament ? Do you think the archangel gabriel think anyth the less of me , becaus I promptli and respect obey that old hunk in that particular instanc ? who ain ' t a slave ? tell me that . well , then , howev the old sea - captain may order me about -- howev they may thump and punch me about , I have the satisfact of know that it is all right ; that everybodi els is one way or other serv in much the same way -- either in a physic or metaphys point of view , that is ; and so the univers thump is pass round , and all hand should rub each other ' s shoulder - blade , and be content . again , I alway go to sea as a sailor , becaus they make a point of pay me for my troubl , wherea they never pay passeng a singl penni that I ever heard of . On the contrari , passeng themselv must pay . and there is all the differ in the world between pay and be paid . the act of pay is perhap the most uncomfort inflict that the two orchard thiev entail upon us . but be paid , -- what will compar with it ? the urban activ with which a man receiv money is realli marvel , consid that we so earnestli believ money to be the root of all earthli ill , and that on no account can a moni man enter heaven . Ah ! how cheer we consign ourselv to perdit ! final , I alway go to sea as a sailor , becaus of the wholesom exercis and pure air of the fore - castl deck . for as in thi world , head wind are far more preval than wind from astern ( that is , if you never violat the pythagorean maxim ) , so for the most part the commodor on the quarter - deck get hi atmospher at second hand from the sailor on the forecastl . He think he breath it first ; but not so . In much the same way do the commonalti lead their leader in mani other thing , at the same time that the leader littl suspect it . but wherefor it wa that after have repeatedli smelt the sea as a merchant sailor , I should now take it into my head to go on a whale voyag ; thi the invis polic offic of the fate , who ha the constant surveil of me , and secretli dog me , and influenc me in some unaccount way -- he can better answer than ani one els . and , doubtless , my go on thi whale voyag , form part of the grand programm of provid that wa drawn up a long time ago . It came in as a sort of brief interlud and solo between more extens perform . I take it that thi part of the bill must have run someth like thi : `` grand contest elect for the presid OF the unit state . `` whale voyag BY one ishmael . `` bloodi battl IN affghanistan . '' though I can not tell whi it wa exactli that those stage manag , the fate , put me down for thi shabbi part of a whale voyag , when other were set down for magnific part in high tragedi , and short and easi part in genteel comedi , and jolli part in farc -- though I can not tell whi thi wa exactli ; yet , now that I recal all the circumst , I think I can see a littl into the spring and motiv which be cunningli present to me under variou disguis , induc me to set about perform the part I did , besid cajol me into the delus that it wa a choic result from my own unbias freewil and discrimin judgment . chief among these motiv wa the overwhelm idea of the great whale himself . such a portent and mysteri monster rous all my curios . then the wild and distant sea where he roll hi island bulk ; the undeliver , nameless peril of the whale ; these , with all the attend marvel of a thousand patagonian sight and sound , help to sway me to my wish . with other men , perhap , such thing would not have been induc ; but as for me , I am torment with an everlast itch for thing remot . I love to sail forbidden sea , and land on barbar coast . not ignor what is good , I am quick to perceiv a horror , and could still be social with it -- would they let me -- sinc it is but well to be on friendli term with all the inmat of the place one lodg in . By reason of these thing , then , the whale voyag wa welcom ; the great flood - gate of the wonder - world swung open , and in the wild conceit that sway me to my purpos , two and two there float into my inmost soul , endless process of the whale , and , mid most of them all , one grand hood phantom , like a snow hill in the air . chapter 2 the carpet - bag . I stuf a shirt or two into my old carpet - bag , tuck it under my arm , and start for cape horn and the pacif . quit the good citi of old manhatto , I duli arriv in new bedford . It wa a saturday night in decemb . much wa I disappoint upon learn that the littl packet for nantucket had alreadi sail , and that no way of reach that place would offer , till the follow monday . As most young candid for the pain and penalti of whale stop at thi same new bedford , thenc to embark on their voyag , it may as well be relat that I , for one , had no idea of so do . for my mind wa made up to sail in no other than a nantucket craft , becaus there wa a fine , boister someth about everyth connect with that famou old island , which amazingli pleas me . besid though new bedford ha of late been gradual monopolis the busi of whale , and though in thi matter poor old nantucket is now much behind her , yet nantucket wa her great origin -- the tyre of thi carthag ; -- the place where the first dead american whale wa strand . where els but from nantucket did those aborigin whalemen , the red - men , first salli out in cano to give chase to the leviathan ? and where but from nantucket , too , did that first adventur littl sloop put forth , partli laden with import cobbleston -- so goe the stori -- to throw at the whale , in order to discov when they were nigh enough to risk a harpoon from the bowsprit ? now have a night , a day , and still anoth night follow befor me in new bedford , ere I could embark for my destin port , it becam a matter of concern where I wa to eat and sleep meanwhil . It wa a veri dubiou - look , nay , a veri dark and dismal night , bitingli cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . with anxiou grapnel I had sound my pocket , and onli brought up a few piec of silver , -- So , wherev you go , ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middl of a dreari street shoulder my bag , and compar the gloom toward the north with the dark toward the south -- wherev in your wisdom you may conclud to lodg for the night , my dear ishmael , be sure to inquir the price , and don ' t be too particular . with halt step I pace the street , and pass the sign of `` the cross harpoon `` -- but it look too expens and jolli there . further on , from the bright red window of the `` sword - fish inn , '' there came such fervent ray , that it seem to have melt the pack snow and ice from befor the hous , for everywher els the congeal frost lay ten inch thick in a hard , asphalt pavement , -- rather weari for me , when I struck my foot against the flinti project , becaus from hard , remorseless servic the sole of my boot were in a most miser plight . too expens and jolli , again thought I , paus one moment to watch the broad glare in the street , and hear the sound of the tinkl glass within . but go on , ishmael , said I at last ; don ' t you hear ? get away from befor the door ; your patch boot are stop the way . So on I went . I now by instinct follow the street that took me waterward , for there , doubtless , were the cheapest , if not the cheeriest inn . such dreari street ! block of black , not hous , on either hand , and here and there a candl , like a candl move about in a tomb . At thi hour of the night , of the last day of the week , that quarter of the town prove all but desert . but present I came to a smoki light proceed from a low , wide build , the door of which stood invitingli open . It had a careless look , as if it were meant for the use of the public ; so , enter , the first thing I did wa to stumbl over an ash - box in the porch . Ha ! thought I , ha , as the fli particl almost choke me , are these ash from that destroy citi , gomorrah ? but `` the cross harpoon , '' and `` the sword - fish ? '' -- thi , then must need be the sign of `` the trap . '' howev , I pick myself up and hear a loud voic within , push on and open a second , interior door . It seem the great black parliament sit in tophet . A hundr black face turn round in their row to peer ; and beyond , a black angel of doom wa beat a book in a pulpit . It wa a negro church ; and the preacher ' s text wa about the black of dark , and the weep and wail and teeth - gnash there . Ha , ishmael , mutter I , back out , wretch entertain at the sign of ' the trap ! ' move on , I at last came to a dim sort of light not far from the dock , and heard a forlorn creak in the air ; and look up , saw a swing sign over the door with a white paint upon it , faintli repres a tall straight jet of misti spray , and these word underneath -- '' the spouter inn : -- peter coffin . '' coffin ? -- spouter ? -- rather omin in that particular connexion , thought I . but it is a common name in nantucket , they say , and I suppos thi peter here is an emigr from there . As the light look so dim , and the place , for the time , look quiet enough , and the dilapid littl wooden hous itself look as if it might have been cart here from the ruin of some burnt district , and as the swing sign had a poverti - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here wa the veri spot for cheap lodg , and the best of pea coffe . It wa a queer sort of place -- a gabl - end old hous , one side palsi as it were , and lean over sadli . It stood on a sharp bleak corner , where that tempestu wind euroclydon kept up a wors howl than ever it did about poor paul ' s toss craft . euroclydon , nevertheless , is a mighti pleasant zephyr to ani one in - door , with hi feet on the hob quietli toast for bed . `` In judg of that tempestu wind call euroclydon , '' say an old writer -- of whose work I possess the onli copi extant -- '' it maketh a marvel differ , whether thou lookest out at it from a glass window where the frost is all on the outsid , or whether thou observest it from that sashless window , where the frost is on both side , and of which the wight death is the onli glazier . '' true enough , thought I , as thi passag occur to my mind -- old black - letter , thou reasonest well . ye , these eye are window , and thi bodi of mine is the hous . what a piti they didn ' t stop up the chink and the cranni though , and thrust in a littl lint here and there . but it ' s too late to make ani improv now . the univers is finish ; the copeston is on , and the chip were cart off a million year ago . poor lazaru there , chatter hi teeth against the curbston for hi pillow , and shake off hi tatter with hi shiver , he might plug up both ear with rag , and put a corn - cob into hi mouth , and yet that would not keep out the tempestu euroclydon . euroclydon ! say old dive , in hi red silken wrapper -- ( he had a redder one afterward ) pooh , pooh ! what a fine frosti night ; how orion glitter ; what northern light ! let them talk of their orient summer clime of everlast conservatori ; give me the privileg of make my own summer with my own coal . but what think lazaru ? can he warm hi blue hand by hold them up to the grand northern light ? would not lazaru rather be in sumatra than here ? would he not far rather lay him down lengthwis along the line of the equat ; yea , ye god ! go down to the fieri pit itself , in order to keep out thi frost ? now , that lazaru should lie strand there on the curbston befor the door of dive , thi is more wonder than that an iceberg should be moor to one of the molucca . yet dive himself , he too live like a czar in an ice palac made of frozen sigh , and be a presid of a temper societi , he onli drink the tepid tear of orphan . but no more of thi blubber now , we are go a - whale , and there is plenti of that yet to come . let us scrape the ice from our frost feet , and see what sort of a place thi `` spouter `` may be . chapter 3 the spouter - inn . enter that gabl - end spouter - inn , you found yourself in a wide , low , straggl entri with old - fashion wainscot , remind one of the bulwark of some condemn old craft . On one side hung a veri larg oilpaint so thoroughli besmok , and everi way defac , that in the unequ crosslight by which you view it , it wa onli by dilig studi and a seri of systemat visit to it , and care inquiri of the neighbor , that you could ani way arriv at an understand of it purpos . such unaccount mass of shade and shadow , that at first you almost thought some ambiti young artist , in the time of the new england hag , had endeavor to delin chao bewitch . but by dint of much and earnest contempl , and oft repeat ponder , and especi by throw open the littl window toward the back of the entri , you at last come to the conclus that such an idea , howev wild , might not be altogeth unwarr . but what most puzzl and confound you wa a long , limber , portent , black mass of someth hover in the centr of the pictur over three blue , dim , perpendicular line float in a nameless yeast . A boggi , soggi , squitchi pictur truli , enough to drive a nervou man distract . yet wa there a sort of indefinit , half - attain , unimagin sublim about it that fairli froze you to it , till you involuntarili took an oath with yourself to find out what that marvel paint meant . ever and anon a bright , but , ala , decept idea would dart you through . -- It ' s the black sea in a midnight gale . -- It ' s the unnatur combat of the four primal element . -- It ' s a blast heath . -- It ' s a hyperborean winter scene . -- It ' s the break - up of the icebound stream of time . but at last all these fanci yield to that one portent someth in the pictur ' s midst . that onc found out , and all the rest were plain . but stop ; doe it not bear a faint resembl to a gigant fish ? even the great leviathan himself ? In fact , the artist ' s design seem thi : a final theori of my own , partli base upon the aggreg opinion of mani age person with whom I convers upon the subject . the pictur repres a cape - horner in a great hurrican ; the half - founder ship welter there with it three dismantl mast alon visibl ; and an exasper whale , purpos to spring clean over the craft , is in the enorm act of impal himself upon the three mast - head . the opposit wall of thi entri wa hung all over with a heathenish array of monstrou club and spear . some were thickli set with glitter teeth resembl ivori saw ; other were tuft with knot of human hair ; and one wa sickl - shape , with a vast handl sweep round like the segment made in the new - mown grass by a long - arm mower . you shudder as you gaze , and wonder what monstrou cannib and savag could ever have gone a death - harvest with such a hack , horrifi implement . mix with these were rusti old whale lanc and harpoon all broken and deform . some were stori weapon . with thi onc long lanc , now wildli elbow , fifti year ago did nathan swain kill fifteen whale between a sunris and a sunset . and that harpoon -- so like a corkscrew now -- wa flung in javan sea , and run away with by a whale , year afterward slain off the cape of blanco . the origin iron enter nigh the tail , and , like a restless needl sojourn in the bodi of a man , travel full forti feet , and at last wa found imbed in the hump . cross thi duski entri , and on through yon low - arch way -- cut through what in old time must have been a great central chimney with fireplac all round -- you enter the public room . A still duskier place is thi , with such low ponder beam abov , and such old wrinkl plank beneath , that you would almost fanci you trod some old craft ' s cockpit , especi of such a howl night , when thi corner - anchor old ark rock so furious . On one side stood a long , low , shelf - like tabl cover with crack glass case , fill with dusti rariti gather from thi wide world ' s remotest nook . project from the further angl of the room stand a dark - look den -- the bar -- a rude attempt at a right whale ' s head . Be that how it may , there stand the vast arch bone of the whale ' s jaw , so wide , a coach might almost drive beneath it . within are shabbi shelv , rang round with old decant , bottl , flask ; and in those jaw of swift destruct , like anoth curs jonah ( by which name inde they call him ) , bustl a littl wither old man , who , for their money , dearli sell the sailor delirium and death . abomin are the tumbler into which he pour hi poison . though true cylind without -- within , the villan green goggl glass deceit taper downward to a cheat bottom . parallel meridian rude peck into the glass , surround these footpad ' goblet . fill to thi mark , and your charg is but a penni ; to thi a penni more ; and so on to the full glass -- the cape horn measur , which you may gulp down for a shill . upon enter the place I found a number of young seamen gather about a tabl , examin by a dim light diver specimen of skrimshand . I sought the landlord , and tell him I desir to be accommod with a room , receiv for answer that hi hous wa full -- not a bed unoccupi . `` but avast , '' he ad , tap hi forehead , `` you haint no object to share a harpoon ' s blanket , have ye ? I s ' pose you are goin ' a - whalin ' , so you ' d better get use to that sort of thing . '' I told him that I never like to sleep two in a bed ; that if I should ever do so , it would depend upon who the harpoon might be , and that if he ( the landlord ) realli had no other place for me , and the harpoon wa not decidedli objection , whi rather than wander further about a strang town on so bitter a night , I would put up with the half of ani decent man ' s blanket . `` I thought so . all right ; take a seat . supper ? -- you want supper ? supper ' ll be readi directli . '' I sat down on an old wooden settl , carv all over like a bench on the batteri . At one end a rumin tar wa still further adorn it with hi jack - knife , stoop over and dilig work away at the space between hi leg . He wa tri hi hand at a ship under full sail , but he didn ' t make much headway , I thought . At last some four or five of us were summon to our meal in an adjoin room . It wa cold as iceland -- no fire at all -- the landlord said he couldn ' t afford it . noth but two dismal tallow candl , each in a wind sheet . We were fain to button up our monkey jacket , and hold to our lip cup of scald tea with our half frozen finger . but the fare wa of the most substanti kind -- not onli meat and potato , but dumpl ; good heaven ! dumpl for supper ! one young fellow in a green box coat , address himself to these dumpl in a most dire manner . `` My boy , '' said the landlord , `` you ' ll have the nightmar to a dead sartainti . '' `` landlord , '' I whisper , `` that aint the harpoon is it ? '' `` Oh , no , '' said he , look a sort of diabol funni , `` the harpoon is a dark complexion chap . He never eat dumpl , he don ' t -- he eat noth but steak , and he like ' em rare . '' `` the devil he doe , '' say I . `` where is that harpoon ? Is he here ? '' `` He ' ll be here afor long , '' wa the answer . I could not help it , but I began to feel suspici of thi `` dark complexion `` harpoon . At ani rate , I made up my mind that if it so turn out that we should sleep togeth , he must undress and get into bed befor I did . supper over , the compani went back to the bar - room , when , know not what els to do with myself , I resolv to spend the rest of the even as a looker on . present a riot nois wa heard without . start up , the landlord cri , `` that ' s the grampu ' s crew . I seed her report in the of thi morn ; a three year ' voyag , and a full ship . hurrah , boy ; now we ' ll have the latest news from the feege . '' A tramp of sea boot wa heard in the entri ; the door wa flung open , and in roll a wild set of marin enough . envelop in their shaggi watch coat , and with their head muffl in woollen comfort , all bedarn and rag , and their beard stiff with icicl , they seem an erupt of bear from labrador . they had just land from their boat , and thi wa the first hous they enter . No wonder , then , that they made a straight wake for the whale ' s mouth -- the bar -- when the wrinkl littl old jonah , there offici , soon pour them out brimmer all round . one complain of a bad cold in hi head , upon which jonah mix him a pitch - like potion of gin and molass , which he swore wa a sovereign cure for all cold and catarrh whatsoev , never mind of how long stand , or whether caught off the coast of labrador , or on the weather side of an ice - island . the liquor soon mount into their head , as it gener doe even with the arrantest toper newli land from sea , and they began caper about most obstreper . I observ , howev , that one of them held somewhat aloof , and though he seem desir not to spoil the hilar of hi shipmat by hi own sober face , yet upon the whole he refrain from make as much nois as the rest . thi man interest me at onc ; and sinc the sea - god had ordain that he should soon becom my shipmat ( though but a sleep - partner one , so far as thi narr is concern ) , I will here ventur upon a littl descript of him . He stood full six feet in height , with nobl shoulder , and a chest like a coffer - dam . I have seldom seen such brawn in a man . hi face wa deepli brown and burnt , make hi white teeth dazzl by the contrast ; while in the deep shadow of hi eye float some reminisc that did not seem to give him much joy . hi voic at onc announc that he wa a southern , and from hi fine statur , I thought he must be one of those tall mountain from the alleghanian ridg in virginia . when the revelri of hi companion had mount to it height , thi man slip away unobserv , and I saw no more of him till he becam my comrad on the sea . In a few minut , howev , he wa miss by hi shipmat , and be , it seem , for some reason a huge favourit with them , they rais a cri of `` bulkington ! bulkington ! where ' s bulkington ? '' and dart out of the hous in pursuit of him . It wa now about nine o ' clock , and the room seem almost supernatur quiet after these orgi , I began to congratul myself upon a littl plan that had occur to me just previou to the entranc of the seamen . No man prefer to sleep two in a bed . In fact , you would a good deal rather not sleep with your own brother . I don ' t know how it is , but peopl like to be privat when they are sleep . and when it come to sleep with an unknown stranger , in a strang inn , in a strang town , and that stranger a harpoon , then your object indefinit multipli . nor wa there ani earthli reason whi I as a sailor should sleep two in a bed , more than anybodi els ; for sailor no more sleep two in a bed at sea , than bachelor king do ashor . To be sure they all sleep togeth in one apart , but you have your own hammock , and cover yourself with your own blanket , and sleep in your own skin . the more I ponder over thi harpoon , the more I abomin the thought of sleep with him . It wa fair to presum that be a harpoon , hi linen or woollen , as the case might be , would not be of the tidiest , certainli none of the finest . I began to twitch all over . besid , it wa get late , and my decent harpoon ought to be home and go bedward . suppos now , he should tumbl in upon me at midnight -- how could I tell from what vile hole he had been come ? `` landlord ! I ' ve chang my mind about that harpoon . -- I shan ' t sleep with him . I ' ll tri the bench here . '' `` just as you pleas ; I ' m sorri I cant spare ye a tablecloth for a mattress , and it ' s a plaguy rough board here `` -- feel of the knot and notch . `` but wait a bit , skrimshand ; I ' ve got a carpent ' s plane there in the bar -- wait , I say , and I ' ll make ye snug enough . '' So say he procur the plane ; and with hi old silk handkerchief first dust the bench , vigor set to plane away at my bed , the while grin like an ape . the shave flew right and left ; till at last the plane - iron came bump against an indestruct knot . the landlord wa near sprain hi wrist , and I told him for heaven ' s sake to quit -- the bed wa soft enough to suit me , and I did not know how all the plane in the world could make eider down of a pine plank . So gather up the shave with anoth grin , and throw them into the great stove in the middl of the room , he went about hi busi , and left me in a brown studi . I now took the measur of the bench , and found that it wa a foot too short ; but that could be mend with a chair . but it wa a foot too narrow , and the other bench in the room wa about four inch higher than the plane one -- so there wa no yoke them . I then place the first bench lengthwis along the onli clear space against the wall , leav a littl interv between , for my back to settl down in . but I soon found that there came such a draught of cold air over me from under the sill of the window , that thi plan would never do at all , especi as anoth current from the ricketi door met the one from the window , and both togeth form a seri of small whirlwind in the immedi vicin of the spot where I had thought to spend the night . the devil fetch that harpoon , thought I , but stop , couldn ' t I steal a march on him -- bolt hi door insid , and jump into hi bed , not to be waken by the most violent knock ? It seem no bad idea ; but upon second thought I dismiss it . for who could tell but what the next morn , so soon as I pop out of the room , the harpoon might be stand in the entri , all readi to knock me down ! still , look round me again , and see no possibl chanc of spend a suffer night unless in some other person ' s bed , I began to think that after all I might be cherish unwarrant prejudic against thi unknown harpoon . think I , I ' ll wait awhil ; he must be drop in befor long . I ' ll have a good look at him then , and perhap we may becom jolli good bedfellow after all -- there ' s no tell . but though the other boarder kept come in by one , two , and three , and go to bed , yet no sign of my harpoon . `` landlord ! said I , `` what sort of a chap is he -- doe he alway keep such late hour ? '' It wa now hard upon twelv o ' clock . the landlord chuckl again with hi lean chuckl , and seem to be mightili tickl at someth beyond my comprehens . `` No , '' he answer , `` gener he ' s an earli bird -- airley to bed and airley to rise -- ye , he ' s the bird what catch the worm . but to - night he went out a peddl , you see , and I don ' t see what on airth keep him so late , unless , may be , he can ' t sell hi head . '' `` can ' t sell hi head ? -- what sort of a bamboozingli stori is thi you are tell me ? '' get into a tower rage . `` Do you pretend to say , landlord , that thi harpoon is actual engag thi bless saturday night , or rather sunday morn , in peddl hi head around thi town ? '' `` that ' s precis it , '' said the landlord , `` and I told him he couldn ' t sell it here , the market ' s overstock . '' `` with what ? '' shout I . `` with head to be sure ; ain ' t there too mani head in the world ? '' `` I tell you what it is , landlord , '' said I quit calmli , `` you ' d better stop spin that yarn to me -- I ' m not green . '' `` may be not , '' take out a stick and whittl a toothpick , `` but I rayther guess you ' ll be done brown if that ere harpoon hear you a slanderin ' hi head . '' `` I ' ll break it for him , '' said I , now fli into a passion again at thi unaccount farrago of the landlord ' s . `` It ' s broke a ' readi , '' said he . `` broke , '' said I -- '' broke , do you mean ? '' `` sartain , and that ' s the veri reason he can ' t sell it , I guess . '' `` landlord , '' said I , go up to him as cool as Mt . hecla in a snow - storm -- '' landlord , stop whittl . you and I must understand one anoth , and that too without delay . I come to your hous and want a bed ; you tell me you can onli give me half a one ; that the other half belong to a certain harpoon . and about thi harpoon , whom I have not yet seen , you persist in tell me the most mystifi and exasper stori tend to beget in me an uncomfort feel toward the man whom you design for my bedfellow -- a sort of connexion , landlord , which is an intim and confidenti one in the highest degre . I now demand of you to speak out and tell me who and what thi harpoon is , and whether I shall be in all respect safe to spend the night with him . and in the first place , you will be so good as to unsay that stori about sell hi head , which if true I take to be good evid that thi harpoon is stark mad , and I ' ve no idea of sleep with a madman ; and you , sir , you I mean , landlord , you , sir , by tri to induc me to do so knowingli , would therebi render yourself liabl to a crimin prosecut . '' `` wall , '' said the landlord , fetch a long breath , `` that ' s a purti long sarmon for a chap that rip a littl now and then . but be easi , be easi , thi here harpoon I have been tellin ' you of ha just arriv from the south sea , where he bought up a lot of ' balm new zealand head ( great curio , you know ) , and he ' s sold all on ' em but one , and that one he ' s tri to sell to - night , caus to - morrow ' s sunday , and it would not do to be sellin ' human head about the street when folk is goin ' to church . He want to , last sunday , but I stop him just as he wa goin ' out of the door with four head strung on a string , for all the airth like a string of inion . '' thi account clear up the otherwis unaccount mysteri , and show that the landlord , after all , had had no idea of fool me -- but at the same time what could I think of a harpoon who stay out of a saturday night clean into the holi sabbath , engag in such a cannib busi as sell the head of dead idol ? `` depend upon it , landlord , that harpoon is a danger man . '' `` He pay reg ' lar , '' wa the rejoind . `` but come , it ' s get dread late , you had better be turn fluke -- it ' s a nice bed ; sal and me slept in that ere bed the night we were splice . there ' s plenti of room for two to kick about in that bed ; it ' s an almighti big bed that . whi , afor we give it up , sal use to put our sam and littl johnni in the foot of it . but I got a dream and sprawl about one night , and somehow , sam got pitch on the floor , and came near break hi arm . arter that , sal said it wouldn ' t do . come along here , I ' ll give ye a glim in a jiffi ; '' and so say he light a candl and held it toward me , offer to lead the way . but I stood irresolut ; when look at a clock in the corner , he exclaim `` I vum it ' s sunday -- you won ' t see that harpoon to - night ; he ' s come to anchor somewher -- come along then ; DO come ; won ' T ye come ? '' I consid the matter a moment , and then up stair we went , and I wa usher into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnish , sure enough , with a prodigi bed , almost big enough inde for ani four harpoon to sleep abreast . `` there , '' said the landlord , place the candl on a crazi old sea chest that did doubl duti as a wash - stand and centr tabl ; `` there , make yourself comfort now , and good night to ye . '' I turn round from eye the bed , but he had disappear . fold back the counterpan , I stoop over the bed . though none of the most eleg , it yet stood the scrutini toler well . I then glanc round the room ; and besid the bedstead and centr tabl , could see no other furnitur belong to the place , but a rude shelf , the four wall , and a paper fireboard repres a man strike a whale . Of thing not properli belong to the room , there wa a hammock lash up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a larg seaman ' s bag , contain the harpoon ' s wardrob , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . likewis , there wa a parcel of outlandish bone fish hook on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon stand at the head of the bed . but what is thi on the chest ? I took it up , and held it close to the light , and felt it , and smelt it , and tri everi way possibl to arriv at some satisfactori conclus concern it . I can compar it to noth but a larg door mat , ornament at the edg with littl tinkl tag someth like the stain porcupin quill round an indian moccasin . there wa a hole or slit in the middl of thi mat , as you see the same in south american poncho . but could it be possibl that ani sober harpoon would get into a door mat , and parad the street of ani christian town in that sort of guis ? I put it on , to tri it , and it weigh me down like a hamper , be uncommonli shaggi and thick , and I thought a littl damp , as though thi mysteri harpoon had been wear it of a raini day . I went up in it to a bit of glass stuck against the wall , and I never saw such a sight in my life . I tore myself out of it in such a hurri that I gave myself a kink in the neck . I sat down on the side of the bed , and commenc think about thi head - peddl harpoon , and hi door mat . after think some time on the bed - side , I got up and took off my monkey jacket , and then stood in the middl of the room think . I then took off my coat , and thought a littl more in my shirt sleev . but begin to feel veri cold now , half undress as I wa , and rememb what the landlord said about the harpoon ' s not come home at all that night , it be so veri late , I made no more ado , but jump out of my pantaloon and boot , and then blow out the light tumbl into bed , and commend myself to the care of heaven . whether that mattress wa stuf with corn - cob or broken crockeri , there is no tell , but I roll about a good deal , and could not sleep for a long time . At last I slid off into a light doze , and had pretti nearli made a good of toward the land of nod , when I heard a heavi footfal in the passag , and saw a glimmer of light come into the room from under the door . lord save me , think I , that must be the harpoon , the infern head - peddler . but I lay perfectli still , and resolv not to say a word till spoken to . hold a light in one hand , and that ident new zealand head in the other , the stranger enter the room , and without look toward the bed , place hi candl a good way off from me on the floor in one corner , and then began work away at the knot cord of the larg bag I befor spoke of as be in the room . I wa all eager to see hi face , but he kept it avert for some time while employ in unlac the bag ' s mouth . thi accomplish , howev , he turn round -- when , good heaven ! what a sight ! such a face ! It wa of a dark , purplish , yellow colour , here and there stuck over with larg blackish look squar . ye , it ' s just as I thought , he ' s a terribl bedfellow ; he ' s been in a fight , got dread cut , and here he is , just from the surgeon . but at that moment he chanc to turn hi face so toward the light , that I plainli saw they could not be stick - plaster at all , those black squar on hi cheek . they were stain of some sort or other . At first I knew not what to make of thi ; but soon an inkl of the truth occur to me . I rememb a stori of a white man -- a whaleman too -- who , fall among the cannib , had been tattoo by them . I conclud that thi harpoon , in the cours of hi distant voyag , must have met with a similar adventur . and what is it , thought I , after all ! It ' s onli hi outsid ; a man can be honest in ani sort of skin . but then , what to make of hi unearthli complexion , that part of it , I mean , lie round about , and complet independ of the squar of tattoo . To be sure , it might be noth but a good coat of tropic tan ; but I never heard of a hot sun ' s tan a white man into a purplish yellow one . howev , I had never been in the south sea ; and perhap the sun there produc these extraordinari effect upon the skin . now , while all these idea were pass through me like lightn , thi harpoon never notic me at all . but , after some difficulti have open hi bag , he commenc fumbl in it , and present pull out a sort of tomahawk , and a seal - skin wallet with the hair on . place these on the old chest in the middl of the room , he then took the new zealand head -- a ghastli thing enough -- and cram it down into the bag . He now took off hi hat -- a new beaver hat -- when I came nigh sing out with fresh surpris . there wa no hair on hi head -- none to speak of at least -- noth but a small scalp - knot twist up on hi forehead . hi bald purplish head now look for all the world like a mildew skull . had not the stranger stood between me and the door , I would have bolt out of it quicker than ever I bolt a dinner . even as it wa , I thought someth of slip out of the window , but it wa the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of thi head - peddl purpl rascal altogeth pass my comprehens . ignor is the parent of fear , and be complet nonpluss and confound about the stranger , I confess I wa now as much afraid of him as if it wa the devil himself who had thu broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I wa so afraid of him that I wa not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactori answer concern what seem inexplic in him . meanwhil , he continu the busi of undress , and at last show hi chest and arm . As I live , these cover part of him were checker with the same squar as hi face ; hi back , too , wa all over the same dark squar ; he seem to have been in a thirti year ' war , and just escap from it with a stick - plaster shirt . still more , hi veri leg were mark , as if a parcel of dark green frog were run up the trunk of young palm . It wa now quit plain that he must be some abomin savag or other ship aboard of a whaleman in the south sea , and so land in thi christian countri . I quak to think of it . A peddler of head too -- perhap the head of hi own brother . He might take a fanci to mine -- heaven ! look at that tomahawk ! but there wa no time for shudder , for now the savag went about someth that complet fascin my attent , and convinc me that he must inde be a heathen . go to hi heavi grego , or wrapal , or dreadnaught , which he had previous hung on a chair , he fumbl in the pocket , and produc at length a curiou littl deform imag with a hunch on it back , and exactli the colour of a three day ' old congo babi . rememb the embalm head , at first I almost thought that thi black manikin wa a real babi preserv in some similar manner . but see that it wa not at all limber , and that it glisten a good deal like polish eboni , I conclud that it must be noth but a wooden idol , which inde it prove to be . for now the savag goe up to the empti fire - place , and remov the paper fire - board , set up thi littl hunch - back imag , like a tenpin , between the andiron . the chimney jamb and all the brick insid were veri sooti , so that I thought thi fire - place made a veri appropri littl shrine or chapel for hi congo idol . I now screw my eye hard toward the half hidden imag , feel but ill at eas meantim -- to see what wa next to follow . first he take about a doubl hand of shave out of hi grego pocket , and place them care befor the idol ; then lay a bit of ship biscuit on top and appli the flame from the lamp , he kindl the shave into a sacrifici blaze . present , after mani hasti snatch into the fire , and still hastier withdraw of hi finger ( wherebi he seem to be scorch them badli ) , he at last succeed in draw out the biscuit ; then blow off the heat and ash a littl , he made a polit offer of it to the littl negro . but the littl devil did not seem to fanci such dri sort of fare at all ; he never move hi lip . all these strang antic were accompani by still stranger guttur nois from the devote , who seem to be pray in a sing - song or els sing some pagan psalmodi or other , dure which hi face twitch about in the most unnatur manner . At last extinguish the fire , he took the idol up veri unceremoni , and bag it again in hi grego pocket as carelessli as if he were a sportsman bag a dead woodcock . all these queer proceed increas my uncomfort , and see him now exhibit strong symptom of conclud hi busi oper , and jump into bed with me , I thought it wa high time , now or never , befor the light wa put out , to break the spell in which I had so long been bound . but the interv I spent in deliber what to say , wa a fatal one . take up hi tomahawk from the tabl , he examin the head of it for an instant , and then hold it to the light , with hi mouth at the handl , he puf out great cloud of tobacco smoke . the next moment the light wa extinguish , and thi wild cannib , tomahawk between hi teeth , sprang into bed with me . I sang out , I could not help it now ; and give a sudden grunt of astonish he began feel me . stammer out someth , I knew not what , I roll away from him against the wall , and then conjur him , whoever or whatev he might be , to keep quiet , and let me get up and light the lamp again . but hi guttur respons satisfi me at onc that he but ill comprehend my mean . `` who - e debel you ? '' -- he at last said -- '' you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e . '' and so say the light tomahawk began flourish about me in the dark . `` landlord , for god ' s sake , peter coffin ! '' shout I . `` landlord ! watch ! coffin ! angel ! save me ! '' `` speak - e ! tell - ee me who - ee be , or dam - me , I kill - e ! '' again growl the cannib , while hi horrid flourish of the tomahawk scatter the hot tobacco ash about me till I thought my linen would get on fire . but thank heaven , at that moment the landlord came into the room light in hand , and leap from the bed I ran up to him . `` don ' t be afraid now , '' said he , grin again , `` queequeg here wouldn ' t harm a hair of your head . '' `` stop your grin , '' shout I , `` and whi didn ' t you tell me that that infern harpoon wa a cannib ? '' `` I thought ye know ' d it ; -- didn ' t I tell ye , he wa a peddlin ' head around town ? -- but turn fluke again and go to sleep . queequeg , look here -- you sabbe me , I sabbe -- you thi man sleep you -- you sabbe ? '' `` Me sabbe plenti `` -- grunt queequeg , puf away at hi pipe and sit up in bed . `` you gette in , '' he ad , motion to me with hi tomahawk , and throw the cloth to one side . He realli did thi in not onli a civil but a realli kind and charit way . I stood look at him a moment . for all hi tattoo he wa on the whole a clean , come look cannib . what ' s all thi fuss I have been make about , thought I to myself -- the man ' s a human be just as I am : he ha just as much reason to fear me , as I have to be afraid of him . better sleep with a sober cannib than a drunken christian . `` landlord , '' said I , `` tell him to stash hi tomahawk there , or pipe , or whatev you call it ; tell him to stop smoke , in short , and I will turn in with him . but I don ' t fanci have a man smoke in bed with me . It ' s danger . besid , I ain ' t insur . '' thi be told to queequeg , he at onc compli , and again polit motion me to get into bed -- roll over to one side as much as to say -- I won ' t touch a leg of ye . '' `` good night , landlord , '' said I , `` you may go . '' I turn in , and never slept better in my life . chapter 4 the counterpan . upon wake next morn about daylight , I found queequeg ' s arm thrown over me in the most love and affection manner . you had almost thought I had been hi wife . the counterpan wa of patchwork , full of odd littl parti - colour squar and triangl ; and thi arm of hi tattoo all over with an intermin cretan labyrinth of a figur , no two part of which were of one precis shade -- owe I suppos to hi keep hi arm at sea unmethod in sun and shade , hi shirt sleev irregularli roll up at variou time -- thi same arm of hi , I say , look for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork quilt . inde , partli lie on it as the arm did when I first awok , I could hardli tell it from the quilt , they so blend their hue togeth ; and it wa onli by the sens of weight and pressur that I could tell that queequeg wa hug me . My sensat were strang . let me tri to explain them . when I wa a child , I well rememb a somewhat similar circumst that befel me ; whether it wa a realiti or a dream , I never could entir settl . the circumst wa thi . I had been cut up some caper or other -- I think it wa tri to crawl up the chimney , as I had seen a littl sweep do a few day previou ; and my stepmoth who , somehow or other , wa all the time whip me , or send me to bed supperless , -- my mother drag me by the leg out of the chimney and pack me off to bed , though it wa onli two o ' clock in the afternoon of the 21st june , the longest day in the year in our hemispher . I felt dread . but there wa no help for it , so up stair I went to my littl room in the third floor , undress myself as slowli as possibl so as to kill time , and with a bitter sigh got between the sheet . I lay there dismal calcul that sixteen entir hour must elaps befor I could hope for a resurrect . sixteen hour in bed ! the small of my back ach to think of it . and it wa so light too ; the sun shine in at the window , and a great rattl of coach in the street , and the sound of gay voic all over the hous . I felt wors and wors -- at last I got up , dress , and softli go down in my stocking feet , sought out my stepmoth , and suddenli threw myself at her feet , beseech her as a particular favour to give me a good slipper for my misbehaviour ; anyth inde but condemn me to lie abe such an unendur length of time . but she wa the best and most conscienti of stepmoth , and back I had to go to my room . for sever hour I lay there broad awak , feel a great deal wors than I have ever done sinc , even from the greatest subsequ misfortun . At last I must have fallen into a troubl nightmar of a doze ; and slowli wake from it -- half steep in dream -- I open my eye , and the befor sun - lit room wa now wrap in outer dark . instantli I felt a shock run through all my frame ; noth wa to be seen , and noth wa to be heard ; but a supernatur hand seem place in mine . My arm hung over the counterpan , and the nameless , unimagin , silent form or phantom , to which the hand belong , seem close seat by my bed - side . for what seem age pile on age , I lay there , frozen with the most aw fear , not dare to drag away my hand ; yet ever think that if I could but stir it one singl inch , the horrid spell would be broken . I knew not how thi conscious at last glide away from me ; but wake in the morn , I shudderingli rememb it all , and for day and week and month afterward I lost myself in confound attempt to explain the mysteri . nay , to thi veri hour , I often puzzl myself with it . now , take away the aw fear , and my sensat at feel the supernatur hand in mine were veri similar , in their strang , to those which I experienc on wake up and see queequeg ' s pagan arm thrown round me . but at length all the past night ' s event soberli recur , one by one , in fix realiti , and then I lay onli aliv to the comic predica . for though I tri to move hi arm -- unlock hi bridegroom clasp -- yet , sleep as he wa , he still hug me tightli , as though naught but death should part us twain . I now strove to rous him -- '' queequeg ! '' -- but hi onli answer wa a snore . I then roll over , my neck feel as if it were in a hors - collar ; and suddenli felt a slight scratch . throw asid the counterpan , there lay the tomahawk sleep by the savag ' s side , as if it were a hatchet - face babi . A pretti pickl , truli , thought I ; abe here in a strang hous in the broad day , with a cannib and a tomahawk ! `` queequeg ! -- in the name of good , queequeg , wake ! '' At length , by dint of much wriggl , and loud and incess expostul upon the unbecoming of hi hug a fellow male in that matrimoni sort of style , I succeed in extract a grunt ; and present , he drew back hi arm , shook himself all over like a newfoundland dog just from the water , and sat up in bed , stiff as a pike - staff , look at me , and rub hi eye as if he did not altogeth rememb how I came to be there , though a dim conscious of know someth about me seem slowli dawn over him . meanwhil , I lay quietli eye him , have no seriou misgiv now , and bent upon narrowli observ so curiou a creatur . when , at last , hi mind seem made up touch the charact of hi bedfellow , and he becam , as it were , reconcil to the fact ; he jump out upon the floor , and by certain sign and sound gave me to understand that , if it pleas me , he would dress first and then leav me to dress afterward , leav the whole apart to myself . think I , queequeg , under the circumst , thi is a veri civil overtur ; but , the truth is , these savag have an innat sens of delicaci , say what you will ; it is marvel how essenti polit they are . I pay thi particular compliment to queequeg , becaus he treat me with so much civil and consider , while I wa guilti of great rude ; stare at him from the bed , and watch all hi toilett motion ; for the time my curios get the better of my breed . nevertheless , a man like queequeg you don ' t see everi day , he and hi way were well worth unusu regard . He commenc dress at top by don hi beaver hat , a veri tall one , by the by , and then -- still minu hi trowser -- he hunt up hi boot . what under the heaven he did it for , I can not tell , but hi next movement wa to crush himself -- boot in hand , and hat on -- under the bed ; when , from sundri violent gasp and strain , I infer he wa hard at work boot himself ; though by no law of proprieti that I ever heard of , is ani man requir to be privat when put on hi boot . but queequeg , do you see , wa a creatur in the transit stage -- neither caterpillar nor butterfli . He wa just enough civil to show off hi outlandish in the strangest possibl manner . hi educ wa not yet complet . He wa an undergradu . If he had not been a small degre civil , he veri probabl would not have troubl himself with boot at all ; but then , if he had not been still a savag , he never would have dreamt of get under the bed to put them on . At last , he emerg with hi hat veri much dent and crush down over hi eye , and began creak and limp about the room , as if , not be much accustom to boot , hi pair of damp , wrinkl cowhid one -- probabl not made to order either -- rather pinch and torment him at the first go off of a bitter cold morn . see , now , that there were no curtain to the window , and that the street be veri narrow , the hous opposit command a plain view into the room , and observ more and more the indecor figur that queequeg made , stave about with littl els but hi hat and boot on ; I beg him as well as I could , to acceler hi toilet somewhat , and particularli to get into hi pantaloon as soon as possibl . He compli , and then proceed to wash himself . At that time in the morn ani christian would have wash hi face ; but queequeg , to my amaz , content himself with restrict hi ablut to hi chest , arm , and hand . He then don hi waistcoat , and take up a piec of hard soap on the wash - stand centr tabl , dip it into water and commenc lather hi face . I wa watch to see where he kept hi razor , when lo and behold , he take the harpoon from the bed corner , slip out the long wooden stock , unsheath the head , whet it a littl on hi boot , and stride up to the bit of mirror against the wall , begin a vigor scrape , or rather harpoon of hi cheek . think I , queequeg , thi is use roger ' s best cutleri with a vengeanc . afterward I wonder the less at thi oper when I came to know of what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made , and how exceedingli sharp the long straight edg are alway kept . the rest of hi toilet wa soon achiev , and he proudli march out of the room , wrap up in hi great pilot monkey jacket , and sport hi harpoon like a marshal ' s baton . chapter 5 breakfast . I quickli follow suit , and descend into the bar - room accost the grin landlord veri pleasantli . I cherish no malic toward him , though he had been skylark with me not a littl in the matter of my bedfellow . howev , a good laugh is a mighti good thing , and rather too scarc a good thing ; the more ' s the piti . So , if ani one man , in hi own proper person , afford stuff for a good joke to anybodi , let him not be backward , but let him cheer allow himself to spend and be spent in that way . and the man that ha anyth bounti laughabl about him , be sure there is more in that man than you perhap think for . the bar - room wa now full of the boarder who had been drop in the night previou , and whom I had not as yet had a good look at . they were nearli all whalemen ; chief mate , and second mate , and third mate , and sea carpent , and sea cooper , and sea blacksmith , and harpoon , and ship keeper ; a brown and brawni compani , with boski beard ; an unshorn , shaggi set , all wear monkey jacket for morn gown . you could pretti plainli tell how long each one had been ashor . thi young fellow ' s healthi cheek is like a sun - toast pear in hue , and would seem to smell almost as muski ; he can not have been three day land from hi indian voyag . that man next him look a few shade lighter ; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him . In the complexion of a third still linger a tropic tawn , but slightli bleach withal ; HE doubtless ha tarri whole week ashor . but who could show a cheek like queequeg ? which , bar with variou tint , seem like the and ' western slope , to show forth in one array , contrast climat , zone by zone . `` grub , ho ! '' now cri the landlord , fling open a door , and in we went to breakfast . they say that men who have seen the world , therebi becom quit at eas in manner , quit self - possess in compani . not alway , though : ledyard , the great new england travel , and mungo park , the scotch one ; of all men , they possess the least assur in the parlor . but perhap the mere cross of siberia in a sledg drawn by dog as ledyard did , or the take a long solitari walk on an empti stomach , in the negro heart of africa , which wa the sum of poor mungo ' s perform -- thi kind of travel , I say , may not be the veri best mode of attain a high social polish . still , for the most part , that sort of thing is to be had anywher . these reflect just here are occas by the circumst that after we were all seat at the tabl , and I wa prepar to hear some good stori about whale ; to my no small surpris , nearli everi man maintain a profound silenc . and not onli that , but they look embarrass . ye , here were a set of sea - dog , mani of whom without the slightest bash had board great whale on the high sea -- entir stranger to them -- and duell them dead without wink ; and yet , here they sat at a social breakfast tabl -- all of the same call , all of kindr tast -- look round as sheepishli at each other as though they had never been out of sight of some sheepfold among the green mountain . A curiou sight ; these bash bear , these timid warrior whalemen ! but as for queequeg -- whi , queequeg sat there among them -- at the head of the tabl , too , it so chanc ; as cool as an icicl . To be sure I can not say much for hi breed . hi greatest admir could not have cordial justifi hi bring hi harpoon into breakfast with him , and use it there without ceremoni ; reach over the tabl with it , to the immin jeopardi of mani head , and grappl the beefsteak toward him . but that wa certainli veri coolli done by him , and everi one know that in most peopl ' s estim , to do anyth coolli is to do it genteelli . We will not speak of all queequeg ' s peculiar here ; how he eschew coffe and hot roll , and appli hi undivid attent to beefsteak , done rare . enough , that when breakfast wa over he withdrew like the rest into the public room , light hi tomahawk - pipe , and wa sit there quietli digest and smoke with hi insepar hat on , when I salli out for a stroll . chapter 6 the street . If I had been astonish at first catch a glimps of so outlandish an individu as queequeg circul among the polit societi of a civil town , that astonish soon depart upon take my first daylight stroll through the street of new bedford . In thoroughfar nigh the dock , ani consider seaport will frequent offer to view the queerest look nondescript from foreign part . even in broadway and chestnut street , mediterranean marin will sometim jostl the affright ladi . regent street is not unknown to lascar and malay ; and at bombay , in the apollo green , live yanke have often scare the nativ . but new bedford beat all water street and wap . In these last - mention haunt you see onli sailor ; but in new bedford , actual cannib stand chat at street corner ; savag outright ; mani of whom yet carri on their bone unholi flesh . It make a stranger stare . but , besid the feegeean , tongatobooarr , erromanggoan , pannangian , and brighggian , and , besid the wild specimen of the whale - craft which unheed reel about the street , you will see other sight still more curiou , certainli more comic . there weekli arriv in thi town score of green vermont and new hampshir men , all athirst for gain and glori in the fisheri . they are mostli young , of stalwart frame ; fellow who have fell forest , and now seek to drop the axe and snatch the whale - lanc . mani are as green as the green mountain whenc they came . In some thing you would think them but a few hour old . look there ! that chap strut round the corner . He wear a beaver hat and swallow - tail coat , girdl with a sailor - belt and sheath - knife . here come anoth with a sou '- wester and a bombazin cloak . No town - bred dandi will compar with a countri - bred one -- I mean a downright bumpkin dandi -- a fellow that , in the dog - day , will mow hi two acr in buckskin glove for fear of tan hi hand . now when a countri dandi like thi take it into hi head to make a distinguish reput , and join the great whale - fisheri , you should see the comic thing he doe upon reach the seaport . In bespeak hi sea - outfit , he order bell - button to hi waistcoat ; strap to hi canva trowser . Ah , poor hay - seed ! how bitterli will burst those strap in the first howl gale , when thou art driven , strap , button , and all , down the throat of the tempest . but think not that thi famou town ha onli harpoon , cannib , and bumpkin to show her visitor . not at all . still new bedford is a queer place . had it not been for us whalemen , that tract of land would thi day perhap have been in as howl condit as the coast of labrador . As it is , part of her back countri are enough to frighten one , they look so boni . the town itself is perhap the dearest place to live in , in all new england . It is a land of oil , true enough : but not like canaan ; a land , also , of corn and wine . the street do not run with milk ; nor in the spring - time do they pave them with fresh egg . yet , in spite of thi , nowher in all america will you find more patrician - like hous ; park and garden more opul , than in new bedford . whenc came they ? how plant upon thi onc scraggi scoria of a countri ? Go and gaze upon the iron emblemat harpoon round yonder lofti mansion , and your question will be answer . ye ; all these brave hous and floweri garden came from the atlant , pacif , and indian ocean . one and all , they were harpoon and drag up hither from the bottom of the sea . can herr alexand perform a feat like that ? In new bedford , father , they say , give whale for dower to their daughter , and portion off their niec with a few porpois a - piec . you must go to new bedford to see a brilliant wed ; for , they say , they have reservoir of oil in everi hous , and everi night recklessli burn their length in spermaceti candl . In summer time , the town is sweet to see ; full of fine mapl -- long avenu of green and gold . and in august , high in air , the beauti and bounti hors - chestnut , candelabra - wise , proffer the passer - by their taper upright cone of congreg blossom . So omnipot is art ; which in mani a district of new bedford ha superinduc bright terrac of flower upon the barren refus rock thrown asid at creation ' s final day . and the women of new bedford , they bloom like their own red rose . but rose onli bloom in summer ; wherea the fine carnat of their cheek is perenni as sunlight in the seventh heaven . elsewher match that bloom of their , ye can not , save in salem , where they tell me the young girl breath such musk , their sailor sweetheart smell them mile off shore , as though they were draw nigh the odor molucca instead of the puritan sand . chapter 7 the chapel . In thi same new bedford there stand a whaleman ' s chapel , and few are the moodi fishermen , shortli bound for the indian ocean or pacif , who fail to make a sunday visit to the spot . I am sure that I did not . return from my first morn stroll , I again salli out upon thi special errand . the sky had chang from clear , sunni cold , to drive sleet and mist . wrap myself in my shaggi jacket of the cloth call bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . enter , I found a small scatter congreg of sailor , and sailor ' wive and widow . A muffl silenc reign , onli broken at time by the shriek of the storm . each silent worshipp seem purpos sit apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunic . the chaplain had not yet arriv ; and there these silent island of men and women sat steadfastli eye sever marbl tablet , with black border , mason into the wall on either side the pulpit . three of them ran someth like the follow , but I do not pretend to quot : -- sacr TO the memori OF john talbot , who , at the age of eighteen , wa lost overboard , near the isl of desol , off patagonia , novemb 1st , 1836 . thi tablet Is erect to hi memori BY hi sister . _____________ sacr TO the memori OF robert long , willi elleri , nathan coleman , walter canni , seth maci , and samuel gleig , form one of the boat ' crew OF the ship eliza who were tow out of sight by a whale , On the off - shore ground in the pacif , decemb 31st , 1839 . thi marbl Is here place by their surviv shipmat . _____________ sacr TO the memori OF the late captain ezekiel hardi , who in the bow of hi boat wa kill by a sperm whale on the coast of japan , august 3d , 1833 . thi tablet Is erect to hi memori BY hi widow . shake off the sleet from my ice - glaze hat and jacket , I seat myself near the door , and turn sideway wa surpris to see queequeg near me . affect by the solemn of the scene , there wa a wonder gaze of incredul curios in hi counten . thi savag wa the onli person present who seem to notic my entranc ; becaus he wa the onli one who could not read , and , therefor , wa not read those frigid inscript on the wall . whether ani of the rel of the seamen whose name appear there were now among the congreg , I knew not ; but so mani are the unrecord accid in the fisheri , and so plainli did sever women present wear the counten if not the trap of some unceas grief , that I feel sure that here befor me were assembl those , in whose unheal heart the sight of those bleak tablet sympathet caus the old wound to bleed afresh . Oh ! ye whose dead lie buri beneath the green grass ; who stand among flower can say -- here , here lie my belov ; ye know not the desol that brood in bosom like these . what bitter blank in those black - border marbl which cover no ash ! what despair in those immov inscript ! what deadli void and unbidden infidel in the line that seem to gnaw upon all faith , and refus resurrect to the be who have placelessli perish without a grave . As well might those tablet stand in the cave of elephanta as here . In what censu of live creatur , the dead of mankind are includ ; whi it is that a univers proverb say of them , that they tell no tale , though contain more secret than the goodwin sand ; how it is that to hi name who yesterday depart for the other world , we prefix so signific and infidel a word , and yet do not thu entitl him , if he but embark for the remotest indi of thi live earth ; whi the life insur compani pay death - forfeitur upon immort ; in what etern , unstir paralysi , and deadli , hopeless tranc , yet lie antiqu adam who die sixti round centuri ago ; how it is that we still refus to be comfort for those who we nevertheless maintain are dwell in unspeak bliss ; whi all the live so strive to hush all the dead ; wherefor but the rumor of a knock in a tomb will terrifi a whole citi . all these thing are not without their mean . but faith , like a jackal , feed among the tomb , and even from these dead doubt she gather her most vital hope . It need scarc to be told , with what feel , on the eve of a nantucket voyag , I regard those marbl tablet , and by the murki light of that darken , dole day read the fate of the whalemen who had gone befor me . ye , ishmael , the same fate may be thine . but somehow I grew merri again . delight induc to embark , fine chanc for promot , it seem -- aye , a stove boat will make me an immort by brevet . ye , there is death in thi busi of whale -- a speechlessli quick chaotic bundl of a man into etern . but what then ? methink we have huge mistaken thi matter of life and death . methink that what they call my shadow here on earth is my true substanc . methink that in look at thing spiritu , we are too much like oyster observ the sun through the water , and think that thick water the thinnest of air . methink my bodi is but the lee of my better be . In fact take my bodi who will , take it I say , it is not me . and therefor three cheer for nantucket ; and come a stove boat and stove bodi when they will , for stave my soul , jove himself can not . chapter 8 the pulpit . I had not been seat veri long ere a man of a certain vener robust enter ; immedi as the storm - pelt door flew back upon admit him , a quick regard eye of him by all the congreg , suffici attest that thi fine old man wa the chaplain . ye , it wa the famou father mappl , so call by the whalemen , among whom he wa a veri great favourit . He had been a sailor and a harpoon in hi youth , but for mani year past had dedic hi life to the ministri . At the time I now write of , father mappl wa in the hardi winter of a healthi old age ; that sort of old age which seem merg into a second flower youth , for among all the fissur of hi wrinkl , there shone certain mild gleam of a newli develop bloom -- the spring verdur peep forth even beneath februari ' s snow . No one have previous heard hi histori , could for the first time behold father mappl without the utmost interest , becaus there were certain engraft cleric peculiar about him , imput to that adventur maritim life he had led . when he enter I observ that he carri no umbrella , and certainli had not come in hi carriag , for hi tarpaulin hat ran down with melt sleet , and hi great pilot cloth jacket seem almost to drag him to the floor with the weight of the water it had absorb . howev , hat and coat and oversho were one by one remov , and hung up in a littl space in an adjac corner ; when , array in a decent suit , he quietli approach the pulpit . like most old fashion pulpit , it wa a veri lofti one , and sinc a regular stair to such a height would , by it long angl with the floor , serious contract the alreadi small area of the chapel , the architect , it seem , had act upon the hint of father mappl , and finish the pulpit without a stair , substitut a perpendicular side ladder , like those use in mount a ship from a boat at sea . the wife of a whale captain had provid the chapel with a handsom pair of red worst man - rope for thi ladder , which , be itself nice head , and stain with a mahogani colour , the whole contriv , consid what manner of chapel it wa , seem by no mean in bad tast . halt for an instant at the foot of the ladder , and with both hand grasp the ornament knob of the man - rope , father mappl cast a look upward , and then with a truli sailor - like but still reverenti dexter , hand over hand , mount the step as if ascend the main - top of hi vessel . the perpendicular part of thi side ladder , as is usual the case with swing one , were of cloth - cover rope , onli the round were of wood , so that at everi step there wa a joint . At my first glimps of the pulpit , it had not escap me that howev conveni for a ship , these joint in the present instanc seem unnecessari . for I wa not prepar to see father mappl after gain the height , slowli turn round , and stoop over the pulpit , deliber drag up the ladder step by step , till the whole wa deposit within , leav him impregn in hi littl quebec . I ponder some time without fulli comprehend the reason for thi . father mappl enjoy such a wide reput for sincer and sanctiti , that I could not suspect him of court notorieti by ani mere trick of the stage . No , thought I , there must be some sober reason for thi thing ; furthermor , it must symbol someth unseen . can it be , then , that by that act of physic isol , he signifi hi spiritu withdraw for the time , from all outward worldli tie and connexion ? ye , for replenish with the meat and wine of the word , to the faith man of god , thi pulpit , I see , is a self - contain stronghold -- a lofti ehrenbreitstein , with a perenni well of water within the wall . but the side ladder wa not the onli strang featur of the place , borrow from the chaplain ' s former sea - fare . between the marbl cenotaph on either hand of the pulpit , the wall which form it back wa adorn with a larg paint repres a gallant ship beat against a terribl storm off a lee coast of black rock and snowi breaker . but high abov the fli scud and dark - roll cloud , there float a littl isl of sunlight , from which beam forth an angel ' s face ; and thi bright face shed a distinct spot of radianc upon the ship ' s toss deck , someth like that silver plate now insert into the victori ' s plank where nelson fell . `` Ah , nobl ship , '' the angel seem to say , `` beat on , beat on , thou nobl ship , and bear a hardi helm ; for lo ! the sun is break through ; the cloud are roll off -- serenest azur is at hand . '' nor wa the pulpit itself without a trace of the same sea - tast that had achiev the ladder and the pictur . it panel front wa in the like of a ship ' s bluff bow , and the holi bibl rest on a project piec of scroll work , fashion after a ship ' s fiddl - head beak . what could be more full of mean ? -- for the pulpit is ever thi earth ' s foremost part ; all the rest come in it rear ; the pulpit lead the world . from thenc it is the storm of god ' s quick wrath is first descri , and the bow must bear the earliest brunt . from thenc it is the god of breez fair or foul is first invok for favour wind . ye , the world ' s a ship on it passag out , and not a voyag complet ; and the pulpit is it prow . chapter 9 the sermon . father mappl rose , and in a mild voic of unassum author order the scatter peopl to condens . `` starboard gangway , there ! side away to larboard -- larboard gangway to starboard ! midship ! midship ! '' there wa a low rumbl of heavi sea - boot among the bench , and a still slighter shuffl of women ' s shoe , and all wa quiet again , and everi eye on the preacher . He paus a littl ; then kneel in the pulpit ' s bow , fold hi larg brown hand across hi chest , uplift hi close eye , and offer a prayer so deepli devout that he seem kneel and pray at the bottom of the sea . thi end , in prolong solemn tone , like the continu toll of a bell in a ship that is founder at sea in a fog -- in such tone he commenc read the follow hymn ; but chang hi manner toward the conclud stanza , burst forth with a peal exult and joy -- `` the rib and terror in the whale , arch over me a dismal gloom , while all god ' s sun - lit wave roll by , and lift me deepen down to doom . `` I saw the open maw of hell , with endless pain and sorrow there ; which none but they that feel can tell -- Oh , I wa plung to despair . `` In black distress , I call my god , when I could scarc believ him mine , He bow hi ear to my complaint -- No more the whale did me confin . `` with speed he flew to my relief , As on a radiant dolphin born ; aw , yet bright , as lightn shone the face of my deliver god . `` My song for ever shall record that terribl , that joy hour ; I give the glori to my god , hi all the merci and the power . nearli all join in sing thi hymn , which swell high abov the howl of the storm . A brief paus ensu ; the preacher slowli turn over the leav of the bibl , and at last , fold hi hand down upon the proper page , said : `` belov shipmat , clinch the last vers of the first chapter of jonah -- ' and god had prepar a great fish to swallow up jonah . ' '' `` shipmat , thi book , contain onli four chapter -- four yarn -- is one of the smallest strand in the mighti cabl of the scriptur . yet what depth of the soul doe jonah ' s deep sealin sound ! what a pregnant lesson to us is thi prophet ! what a nobl thing is that canticl in the fish ' s belli ! how billow - like and boister grand ! We feel the flood surg over us ; we sound with him to the kelpi bottom of the water ; sea - weed and all the slime of the sea is about us ! but what is thi lesson that the book of jonah teach ? shipmat , it is a two - strand lesson ; a lesson to us all as sin men , and a lesson to me as a pilot of the live god . As sin men , it is a lesson to us all , becaus it is a stori of the sin , hard - hearted , suddenli awaken fear , the swift punish , repent , prayer , and final the deliver and joy of jonah . As with all sinner among men , the sin of thi son of amittai wa in hi wil disobedi of the command of god -- never mind now what that command wa , or how convey -- which he found a hard command . but all the thing that god would have us do are hard for us to do -- rememb that -- and henc , he often command us than endeavor to persuad . and if we obey god , we must disobey ourselv ; and it is in thi disobey ourselv , wherein the hard of obey god consist . `` with thi sin of disobedi in him , jonah still further flout at god , by seek to flee from him . He think that a ship made by men will carri him into countri where god doe not reign , but onli the captain of thi earth . He skulk about the wharv of joppa , and seek a ship that ' s bound for tarshish . there lurk , perhap , a hitherto unheed mean here . By all account tarshish could have been no other citi than the modern cadiz . that ' s the opinion of learn men . and where is cadiz , shipmat ? cadiz is in spain ; as far by water , from joppa , as jonah could possibl have sail in those ancient day , when the atlant wa an almost unknown sea . becaus joppa , the modern jaffa , shipmat , is on the most easterli coast of the mediterranean , the syrian ; and tarshish or cadiz more than two thousand mile to the westward from that , just outsid the strait of gibraltar . see ye not then , shipmat , that jonah sought to flee world - wide from god ? miser man ! Oh ! most contempt and worthi of all scorn ; with slouch hat and guilti eye , skulk from hi god ; prowl among the ship like a vile burglar hasten to cross the sea . So disord , self - condemn is hi look , that had there been policemen in those day , jonah , on the mere suspicion of someth wrong , had been arrest ere he touch a deck . how plainli he ' s a fugit ! no baggag , not a hat - box , valis , or carpet - bag , -- no friend accompani him to the wharf with their adieux . At last , after much dodg search , he find the tarshish ship receiv the last item of her cargo ; and as he step on board to see it captain in the cabin , all the sailor for the moment desist from hoist in the good , to mark the stranger ' s evil eye . jonah see thi ; but in vain he tri to look all eas and confid ; in vain essay hi wretch smile . strong intuit of the man assur the marin he can be no innoc . In their gamesom but still seriou way , one whisper to the other -- '' jack , he ' s rob a widow ; '' or , `` joe , do you mark him ; he ' s a bigamist ; '' or , `` harri lad , I guess he ' s the adulter that broke jail in old gomorrah , or belik , one of the miss murder from sodom . '' anoth run to read the bill that ' s stuck against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is moor , offer five hundr gold coin for the apprehens of a parricid , and contain a descript of hi person . He read , and look from jonah to the bill ; while all hi sympathet shipmat now crowd round jonah , prepar to lay their hand upon him . fright jonah trembl , and summon all hi bold to hi face , onli look so much the more a coward . He will not confess himself suspect ; but that itself is strong suspicion . So he make the best of it ; and when the sailor find him not to be the man that is advertis , they let him pass , and he descend into the cabin . `` ' who ' s there ? ' cri the captain at hi busi desk , hurriedli make out hi paper for the custom -- ' who ' s there ? ' Oh ! how that harmless question mangl jonah ! for the instant he almost turn to flee again . but he ralli . ' I seek a passag in thi ship to tarshish ; how soon sail ye , sir ? ' thu far the busi captain had not look up to jonah , though the man now stand befor him ; but no sooner doe he hear that hollow voic , than he dart a scrutin glanc . ' We sail with the next come tide , ' at last he slowli answer , still intent eye him . ' No sooner , sir ? ' -- ' soon enough for ani honest man that goe a passeng . ' Ha ! jonah , that ' s anoth stab . but he swiftli call away the captain from that scent . ' I ' ll sail with ye , ' -- he say , -- ' the passag money how much is that ? -- I ' ll pay now . ' for it is particularli written , shipmat , as if it were a thing not to be overlook in thi histori , ' that he paid the fare thereof ' ere the craft did sail . and taken with the context , thi is full of mean . `` now jonah ' s captain , shipmat , wa one whose discern detect crime in ani , but whose cupid expos it onli in the penniless . In thi world , shipmat , sin that pay it way can travel freeli , and without a passport ; wherea virtu , if a pauper , is stop at all frontier . So jonah ' s captain prepar to test the length of jonah ' s purs , ere he judg him openli . He charg him thrice the usual sum ; and it ' s assent to . then the captain know that jonah is a fugit ; but at the same time resolv to help a flight that pave it rear with gold . yet when jonah fairli take out hi purs , prudent suspicion still molest the captain . He ring everi coin to find a counterfeit . not a forger , ani way , he mutter ; and jonah is put down for hi passag . ' point out my state - room , sir , ' say jonah now , ' I ' m travel - weari ; I need sleep . ' ' thou lookest like it , ' say the captain , ' there ' s thi room . ' jonah enter , and would lock the door , but the lock contain no key . hear him foolishli fumbl there , the captain laugh lowli to himself , and mutter someth about the door of convict ' cell be never allow to be lock within . all dress and dusti as he is , jonah throw himself into hi berth , and find the littl state - room ceil almost rest on hi forehead . the air is close , and jonah gasp . then , in that contract hole , sunk , too , beneath the ship ' s water - line , jonah feel the herald presenti of that stifl hour , when the whale shall hold him in the smallest of hi bowel ' ward . `` screw at it axi against the side , a swing lamp slightli oscil in jonah ' s room ; and the ship , heel over toward the wharf with the weight of the last bale receiv , the lamp , flame and all , though in slight motion , still maintain a perman obliqu with refer to the room ; though , in truth , infal straight itself , it but made obviou the fals , lie level among which it hung . the lamp alarm and frighten jonah ; as lie in hi berth hi torment eye roll round the place , and thi thu far success fugit find no refug for hi restless glanc . but that contradict in the lamp more and more appal him . the floor , the ceil , and the side , are all awri . ' Oh ! so my conscienc hang in me ! ' he groan , ' straight upward , so it burn ; but the chamber of my soul are all in crooked ! ' `` like one who after a night of drunken revelri hie to hi bed , still reel , but with conscienc yet prick him , as the plung of the roman race - hors but so much the more strike hi steel tag into him ; as one who in that miser plight still turn and turn in giddi anguish , pray god for annihil until the fit be pass ; and at last amid the whirl of woe he feel , a deep stupor steal over him , as over the man who bleed to death , for conscienc is the wound , and there ' s naught to staunch it ; so , after sore wrestl in hi berth , jonah ' s prodigi of ponder miseri drag him drown down to sleep . `` and now the time of tide ha come ; the ship cast off her cabl ; and from the desert wharf the uncheer ship for tarshish , all careen , glide to sea . that ship , my friend , wa the first of record smuggler ! the contraband wa jonah . but the sea rebel ; he will not bear the wick burden . A dread storm come on , the ship is like to break . but now when the boatswain call all hand to lighten her ; when box , bale , and jar are clatter overboard ; when the wind is shriek , and the men are yell , and everi plank thunder with trampl feet right over jonah ' s head ; in all thi rage tumult , jonah sleep hi hideou sleep . He see no black sky and rage sea , feel not the reel timber , and littl hear he or heed he the far rush of the mighti whale , which even now with open mouth is cleav the sea after him . aye , shipmat , jonah wa gone down into the side of the ship -- a berth in the cabin as I have taken it , and wa fast asleep . but the frighten master come to him , and shriek in hi dead ear , ' what meanest thou , O , sleeper ! aris ! ' startl from hi lethargi by that dire cri , jonah stagger to hi feet , and stumbl to the deck , grasp a shroud , to look out upon the sea . but at that moment he is sprung upon by a panther billow leap over the bulwark . wave after wave thu leap into the ship , and find no speedi vent run roar fore and aft , till the marin come nigh to drown while yet afloat . and ever , as the white moon show her affright face from the steep gulli in the black overhead , aghast jonah see the rear bowsprit point high upward , but soon beat downward again toward the torment deep . `` terror upon terror run shout through hi soul . In all hi cring attitud , the god - fugit is now too plainli known . the sailor mark him ; more and more certain grow their suspicion of him , and at last , fulli to test the truth , by refer the whole matter to high heaven , they fall to cast lot , to see for whose caus thi great tempest wa upon them . the lot is jonah ' s ; that discov , then how furious they mob him with their question . ' what is thine occup ? whenc comest thou ? thi countri ? what peopl ? but mark now , my shipmat , the behavior of poor jonah . the eager marin but ask him who he is , and where from ; wherea , they not onli receiv an answer to those question , but likewis anoth answer to a question not put by them , but the unsolicit answer is forc from jonah by the hard hand of god that is upon him . `` ' I am a hebrew , ' he cri -- and then -- ' I fear the lord the god of heaven who hath made the sea and the dri land ! ' fear him , O jonah ? aye , well mightest thou fear the lord god then ! straightway , he now goe on to make a full confess ; whereupon the marin becam more and more appal , but still are piti . for when jonah , not yet supplic god for merci , sinc he but too well knew the dark of hi desert , -- when wretch jonah cri out to them to take him and cast him forth into the sea , for he knew that for hi sake thi great tempest wa upon them ; they merci turn from him , and seek by other mean to save the ship . but all in vain ; the indign gale howl louder ; then , with one hand rais invokingli to god , with the other they not unreluctantli lay hold of jonah . `` and now behold jonah taken up as an anchor and drop into the sea ; when instantli an oili calm float out from the east , and the sea is still , as jonah carri down the gale with him , leav smooth water behind . He goe down in the whirl heart of such a masterless commot that he scarc heed the moment when he drop seeth into the yawn jaw await him ; and the whale shoot - to all hi ivori teeth , like so mani white bolt , upon hi prison . then jonah pray unto the lord out of the fish ' s belli . but observ hi prayer , and learn a weighti lesson . for sin as he is , jonah doe not weep and wail for direct deliver . He feel that hi dread punish is just . He leav all hi deliver to god , content himself with thi , that spite of all hi pain and pang , he will still look toward hi holi templ . and here , shipmat , is true and faith repent ; not clamor for pardon , but grate for punish . and how pleas to god wa thi conduct in jonah , is shown in the eventu deliver of him from the sea and the whale . shipmat , I do not place jonah befor you to be copi for hi sin but I do place him befor you as a model for repent . sin not ; but if you do , take heed to repent of it like jonah . '' while he wa speak these word , the howl of the shriek , slant storm without seem to add new power to the preacher , who , when describ jonah ' s sea - storm , seem toss by a storm himself . hi deep chest heav as with a ground - swell ; hi toss arm seem the war element at work ; and the thunder that roll away from off hi swarthi brow , and the light leap from hi eye , made all hi simpl hearer look on him with a quick fear that wa strang to them . there now came a lull in hi look , as he silent turn over the leav of the book onc more ; and , at last , stand motionless , with close eye , for the moment , seem commun with god and himself . but again he lean over toward the peopl , and bow hi head lowli , with an aspect of the deepest yet manliest humil , he spake these word : `` shipmat , god ha laid but one hand upon you ; both hi hand press upon me . I have read ye by what murki light may be mine the lesson that jonah teach to all sinner ; and therefor to ye , and still more to me , for I am a greater sinner than ye . and now how gladli would I come down from thi mast - head and sit on the hatch there where you sit , and listen as you listen , while some one of you read ME that other and more aw lesson which jonah teach to ME , as a pilot of the live god . how be an anoint pilot - prophet , or speaker of true thing , and bidden by the lord to sound those unwelcom truth in the ear of a wick nineveh , jonah , appal at the hostil he should rais , fled from hi mission , and sought to escap hi duti and hi god by take ship at joppa . but god is everywher ; tarshish he never reach . As we have seen , god came upon him in the whale , and swallow him down to live gulf of doom , and with swift slant tore him along ' into the midst of the sea , ' where the eddi depth suck him ten thousand fathom down , and ' the weed were wrap about hi head , ' and all the wateri world of woe bowl over him . yet even then beyond the reach of ani plummet -- ' out of the belli of hell ' -- when the whale ground upon the ocean ' s utmost bone , even then , god heard the engulph , repent prophet when he cri . then god spake unto the fish ; and from the shudder cold and black of the sea , the whale came breech up toward the warm and pleasant sun , and all the delight of air and earth ; and ' vomit out jonah upon the dri land ; ' when the word of the lord came a second time ; and jonah , bruis and beaten -- hi ear , like two sea - shell , still multitudin murmur of the ocean -- jonah did the almighti ' s bid . and what wa that , shipmat ? To preach the truth to the face of falsehood ! that wa it ! `` thi , shipmat , thi is that other lesson ; and woe to that pilot of the live god who slight it . woe to him whom thi world charm from gospel duti ! woe to him who seek to pour oil upon the water when god ha brew them into a gale ! woe to him who seek to pleas rather than to appal ! woe to him whose good name is more to him than good ! woe to him who , in thi world , court not dishonour ! woe to him who would not be true , even though to be fals were salvat ! yea , woe to him who , as the great pilot paul ha it , while preach to other is himself a castaway ! '' He drop and fell away from himself for a moment ; then lift hi face to them again , show a deep joy in hi eye , as he cri out with a heavenli enthusiasm , -- '' but oh ! shipmat ! on the starboard hand of everi woe , there is a sure delight ; and higher the top of that delight , than the bottom of the woe is deep . Is not the main - truck higher than the kelson is low ? delight is to him -- a far , far upward , and inward delight -- who against the proud god and commodor of thi earth , ever stand forth hi own inexor self . delight is to him whose strong arm yet support him , when the ship of thi base treacher world ha gone down beneath him . delight is to him , who give no quarter in the truth , and kill , burn , and destroy all sin though he pluck it out from under the robe of senat and judg . delight , -- top - gallant delight is to him , who acknowledg no law or lord , but the lord hi god , and is onli a patriot to heaven . delight is to him , whom all the wave of the billow of the sea of the boister mob can never shake from thi sure keel of the age . and etern delight and delici will be hi , who come to lay him down , can say with hi final breath -- O father ! -- chiefli known to me by thi rod -- mortal or immort , here I die . I have striven to be thine , more than to be thi world ' s , or mine own . yet thi is noth : I leav etern to thee ; for what is man that he should live out the lifetim of hi god ? '' He said no more , but slowli wave a benedict , cover hi face with hi hand , and so remain kneel , till all the peopl had depart , and he wa left alon in the place . chapter 10 A bosom friend . return to the spouter - inn from the chapel , I found queequeg there quit alon ; he have left the chapel befor the benedict some time . He wa sit on a bench befor the fire , with hi feet on the stove hearth , and in one hand wa hold close up to hi face that littl negro idol of hi ; peer hard into it face , and with a jack - knife gentli whittl away at it nose , meanwhil hum to himself in hi heathenish way . but be now interrupt , he put up the imag ; and pretti soon , go to the tabl , took up a larg book there , and place it on hi lap began count the page with deliber regular ; at everi fiftieth page -- as I fanci -- stop a moment , look vacantli around him , and give utter to a long - drawn gurgl whistl of astonish . He would then begin again at the next fifti ; seem to commenc at number one each time , as though he could not count more than fifti , and it wa onli by such a larg number of fifti be found togeth , that hi astonish at the multitud of page wa excit . with much interest I sat watch him . savag though he wa , and hideous mar about the face -- at least to my tast -- hi counten yet had a someth in it which wa by no mean disagre . you can not hide the soul . through all hi unearthli tattoo , I thought I saw the trace of a simpl honest heart ; and in hi larg , deep eye , fieri black and bold , there seem token of a spirit that would dare a thousand devil . and besid all thi , there wa a certain lofti bear about the pagan , which even hi uncouth could not altogeth maim . He look like a man who had never cring and never had had a creditor . whether it wa , too , that hi head be shave , hi forehead wa drawn out in freer and brighter relief , and look more expans than it otherwis would , thi I will not ventur to decid ; but certain it wa hi head wa phrenolog an excel one . It may seem ridicul , but it remind me of gener washington ' s head , as seen in the popular bust of him . It had the same long regularli grade retreat slope from abov the brow , which were likewis veri project , like two long promontori thickli wood on top . queequeg wa georg washington cannibalist develop . whilst I wa thu close scan him , half - pretend meanwhil to be look out at the storm from the casement , he never heed my presenc , never troubl himself with so much as a singl glanc ; but appear wholli occupi with count the page of the marvel book . consid how sociabl we had been sleep togeth the night previou , and especi consid the affection arm I had found thrown over me upon wake in the morn , I thought thi indiffer of hi veri strang . but savag are strang be ; at time you do not know exactli how to take them . At first they are overaw ; their calm self - collected of simplic seem a socrat wisdom . I had notic also that queequeg never consort at all , or but veri littl , with the other seamen in the inn . He made no advanc whatev ; appear to have no desir to enlarg the circl of hi acquaint . all thi struck me as mighti singular ; yet , upon second thought , there wa someth almost sublim in it . here wa a man some twenti thousand mile from home , by the way of cape horn , that is -- which wa the onli way he could get there -- thrown among peopl as strang to him as though he were in the planet jupit ; and yet he seem entir at hi eas ; preserv the utmost seren ; content with hi own companionship ; alway equal to himself . sure thi wa a touch of fine philosophi ; though no doubt he had never heard there wa such a thing as that . but , perhap , to be true philosoph , we mortal should not be consciou of so live or so strive . So soon as I hear that such or such a man give himself out for a philosoph , I conclud that , like the dyspept old woman , he must have `` broken hi digest . '' As I sat there in that now lone room ; the fire burn low , in that mild stage when , after it first intens ha warm the air , it then onli glow to be look at ; the even shade and phantom gather round the casement , and peer in upon us silent , solitari twain ; the storm boom without in solemn swell ; I began to be sensibl of strang feel . I felt a melt in me . No more my splinter heart and madden hand were turn against the wolfish world . thi sooth savag had redeem it . there he sat , hi veri indiffer speak a natur in which there lurk no civil hypocrisi and bland deceit . wild he wa ; a veri sight of sight to see ; yet I began to feel myself mysteri drawn toward him . and those same thing that would have repel most other , they were the veri magnet that thu drew me . I ' ll tri a pagan friend , thought I , sinc christian kind ha prove but hollow courtesi . I drew my bench near him , and made some friendli sign and hint , do my best to talk with him meanwhil . At first he littl notic these advanc ; but present , upon my refer to hi last night ' s hospit , he made out to ask me whether we were again to be bedfellow . I told him ye ; whereat I thought he look pleas , perhap a littl compliment . We then turn over the book togeth , and I endeavor to explain to him the purpos of the print , and the mean of the few pictur that were in it . thu I soon engag hi interest ; and from that we went to jabber the best we could about the variou outer sight to be seen in thi famou town . soon I propos a social smoke ; and , produc hi pouch and tomahawk , he quietli offer me a puff . and then we sat exchang puff from that wild pipe of hi , and keep it regularli pass between us . If there yet lurk ani ice of indiffer toward me in the pagan ' s breast , thi pleasant , genial smoke we had , soon thaw it out , and left us croni . He seem to take to me quit as natur and unbiddenli as I to him ; and when our smoke wa over , he press hi forehead against mine , clasp me round the waist , and said that henceforth we were marri ; mean , in hi countri ' s phrase , that we were bosom friend ; he would gladli die for me , if need should be . In a countryman , thi sudden flame of friendship would have seem far too prematur , a thing to be much distrust ; but in thi simpl savag those old rule would not appli . after supper , and anoth social chat and smoke , we went to our room togeth . He made me a present of hi embalm head ; took out hi enorm tobacco wallet , and grope under the tobacco , drew out some thirti dollar in silver ; then spread them on the tabl , and mechan divid them into two equal portion , push one of them toward me , and said it wa mine . I wa go to remonstr ; but he silenc me by pour them into my trowser ' pocket . I let them stay . He then went about hi even prayer , took out hi idol , and remov the paper fireboard . By certain sign and symptom , I thought he seem anxiou for me to join him ; but well know what wa to follow , I deliber a moment whether , in case he invit me , I would compli or otherwis . I wa a good christian ; born and bred in the bosom of the infal presbyterian church . how then could I unit with thi wild idol in worship hi piec of wood ? but what is worship ? thought I . Do you suppos now , ishmael , that the magnanim god of heaven and earth -- pagan and all includ -- can possibl be jealou of an insignific bit of black wood ? imposs ! but what is worship ? -- to do the will of god -- that is worship . and what is the will of god ? -- to do to my fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me -- that is the will of god . now , queequeg is my fellow man . and what do I wish that thi queequeg would do to me ? whi , unit with me in my particular presbyterian form of worship . consequ , I must then unit with him in hi ; ergo , I must turn idol . So I kindl the shave ; help prop up the innoc littl idol ; offer him burnt biscuit with queequeg ; salam befor him twice or thrice ; kiss hi nose ; and that done , we undress and went to bed , at peac with our own conscienc and all the world . but we did not go to sleep without some littl chat . how it is I know not ; but there is no place like a bed for confidenti disclosur between friend . man and wife , they say , there open the veri bottom of their soul to each other ; and some old coupl often lie and chat over old time till nearli morn . thu , then , in our heart ' honeymoon , lay I and queequeg -- a cosi , love pair . chapter 11 nightgown . We had lain thu in bed , chat and nap at short interv , and queequeg now and then affection throw hi brown tattoo leg over mine , and then draw them back ; so entir sociabl and free and easi were we ; when , at last , by reason of our confabul , what littl nappish remain in us altogeth depart , and we felt like get up again , though day - break wa yet some way down the futur . ye , we becam veri wake ; so much so that our recumb posit began to grow wearisom , and by littl and littl we found ourselv sit up ; the cloth well tuck around us , lean against the head - board with our four knee drawn up close togeth , and our two nose bend over them , as if our kneepan were warm - pan . We felt veri nice and snug , the more so sinc it wa so chilli out of door ; inde out of bed - cloth too , see that there wa no fire in the room . the more so , I say , becaus truli to enjoy bodili warmth , some small part of you must be cold , for there is no qualiti in thi world that is not what it is mere by contrast . noth exist in itself . If you flatter yourself that you are all over comfort , and have been so a long time , then you can not be said to be comfort ani more . but if , like queequeg and me in the bed , the tip of your nose or the crown of your head be slightli chill , whi then , inde , in the gener conscious you feel most delight and unmistak warm . for thi reason a sleep apart should never be furnish with a fire , which is one of the luxuri discomfort of the rich . for the height of thi sort of delici is to have noth but the blanket between you and your snug and the cold of the outer air . then there you lie like the one warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal . We had been sit in thi crouch manner for some time , when all at onc I thought I would open my eye ; for when between sheet , whether by day or by night , and whether asleep or awak , I have a way of alway keep my eye shut , in order the more to concentr the snug of be in bed . becaus no man can ever feel hi own ident aright except hi eye be close ; as if dark were inde the proper element of our essenc , though light be more congeni to our clayey part . upon open my eye then , and come out of my own pleasant and self - creat dark into the impos and coars outer gloom of the unillumin twelv - o ' clock - at - night , I experienc a disagre revuls . nor did I at all object to the hint from queequeg that perhap it were best to strike a light , see that we were so wide awak ; and besid he felt a strong desir to have a few quiet puff from hi tomahawk . Be it said , that though I had felt such a strong repugn to hi smoke in the bed the night befor , yet see how elast our stiff prejudic grow when love onc come to bend them . for now I like noth better than to have queequeg smoke by me , even in bed , becaus he seem to be full of such seren household joy then . I no more felt unduli concern for the landlord ' s polici of insur . I wa onli aliv to the condens confidenti comfort of share a pipe and a blanket with a real friend . with our shaggi jacket drawn about our shoulder , we now pass the tomahawk from one to the other , till slowli there grew over us a blue hang tester of smoke , illumin by the flame of the new - lit lamp . whether it wa that thi undul tester roll the savag away to far distant scene , I know not , but he now spoke of hi nativ island ; and , eager to hear hi histori , I beg him to go on and tell it . He gladli compli . though at the time I but ill comprehend not a few of hi word , yet subsequ disclosur , when I had becom more familiar with hi broken phraseolog , now enabl me to present the whole stori such as it may prove in the mere skeleton I give . chapter 12 biograph . queequeg wa a nativ of rokovoko , an island far away to the west and south . It is not down in ani map ; true place never are . when a new - hatch savag run wild about hi nativ woodland in a grass clout , follow by the nibbl goat , as if he were a green sapl ; even then , in queequeg ' s ambiti soul , lurk a strong desir to see someth more of christendom than a specimen whaler or two . hi father wa a high chief , a king ; hi uncl a high priest ; and on the matern side he boast aunt who were the wive of unconquer warrior . there wa excel blood in hi vein -- royal stuff ; though sadli vitiat , I fear , by the cannib propens he nourish in hi untutor youth . A sag harbor ship visit hi father ' s bay , and queequeg sought a passag to christian land . but the ship , have her full complement of seamen , spurn hi suit ; and not all the king hi father ' s influenc could prevail . but queequeg vow a vow . alon in hi cano , he paddl off to a distant strait , which he knew the ship must pass through when she quit the island . On one side wa a coral reef ; on the other a low tongu of land , cover with mangrov thicket that grew out into the water . hide hi cano , still afloat , among these thicket , with it prow seaward , he sat down in the stern , paddl low in hand ; and when the ship wa glide by , like a flash he dart out ; gain her side ; with one backward dash of hi foot capsiz and sank hi cano ; climb up the chain ; and throw himself at full length upon the deck , grappl a ring - bolt there , and swore not to let it go , though hack in piec . In vain the captain threaten to throw him overboard ; suspend a cutlass over hi nake wrist ; queequeg wa the son of a king , and queequeg budg not . struck by hi desper dauntless , and hi wild desir to visit christendom , the captain at last relent , and told him he might make himself at home . but thi fine young savag -- thi sea princ of wale , never saw the captain ' s cabin . they put him down among the sailor , and made a whaleman of him . but like czar peter content to toil in the shipyard of foreign citi , queequeg disdain no seem ignomini , if therebi he might happili gain the power of enlighten hi untutor countrymen . for at bottom -- so he told me -- he wa actuat by a profound desir to learn among the christian , the art wherebi to make hi peopl still happier than they were ; and more than that , still better than they were . but , ala ! the practic of whalemen soon convinc him that even christian could be both miser and wick ; infinit more so , than all hi father ' s heathen . arriv at last in old sag harbor ; and see what the sailor did there ; and then go on to nantucket , and see how they spent their wage in that place also , poor queequeg gave it up for lost . thought he , it ' s a wick world in all meridian ; I ' ll die a pagan . and thu an old idol at heart , he yet live among these christian , wore their cloth , and tri to talk their gibberish . henc the queer way about him , though now some time from home . By hint , I ask him whether he did not propos go back , and have a coron ; sinc he might now consid hi father dead and gone , he be veri old and feebl at the last account . He answer no , not yet ; and ad that he wa fear christian , or rather christian , had unfit him for ascend the pure and undefil throne of thirti pagan king befor him . but by and by , he said , he would return , -- as soon as he felt himself baptiz again . for the nonc , howev , he propos to sail about , and sow hi wild oat in all four ocean . they had made a harpoon of him , and that barb iron wa in lieu of a sceptr now . I ask him what might be hi immedi purpos , touch hi futur movement . He answer , to go to sea again , in hi old vocat . upon thi , I told him that whale wa my own design , and inform him of my intent to sail out of nantucket , as be the most promis port for an adventur whaleman to embark from . He at onc resolv to accompani me to that island , ship aboard the same vessel , get into the same watch , the same boat , the same mess with me , in short to share my everi hap ; with both my hand in hi , boldli dip into the potluck of both world . To all thi I joyous assent ; for besid the affect I now felt for queequeg , he wa an experienc harpoon , and as such , could not fail to be of great use to one , who , like me , wa wholli ignor of the mysteri of whale , though well acquaint with the sea , as known to merchant seamen . hi stori be end with hi pipe ' s last die puff , queequeg embrac me , press hi forehead against mine , and blow out the light , we roll over from each other , thi way and that , and veri soon were sleep . chapter 13 wheelbarrow . next morn , monday , after dispos of the embalm head to a barber , for a block , I settl my own and comrad ' s bill ; use , howev , my comrad ' s money . the grin landlord , as well as the boarder , seem amazingli tickl at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and queequeg -- especi as peter coffin ' s cock and bull stori about him had previous so much alarm me concern the veri person whom I now compani with . We borrow a wheelbarrow , and embark our thing , includ my own poor carpet - bag , and queequeg ' s canva sack and hammock , away we went down to `` the moss , '' the littl nantucket packet schooner moor at the wharf . As we were go along the peopl stare ; not at queequeg so much -- for they were use to see cannib like him in their street , -- but at see him and me upon such confidenti term . but we heed them not , go along wheel the barrow by turn , and queequeg now and then stop to adjust the sheath on hi harpoon barb . I ask him whi he carri such a troublesom thing with him ashor , and whether all whale ship did not find their own harpoon . To thi , in substanc , he repli , that though what I hint wa true enough , yet he had a particular affect for hi own harpoon , becaus it wa of assur stuff , well tri in mani a mortal combat , and deepli intim with the heart of whale . In short , like mani inland reaper and mower , who go into the farmer ' meadow arm with their own scyth -- though in no wise oblig to furnish them -- even so , queequeg , for hi own privat reason , prefer hi own harpoon . shift the barrow from my hand to hi , he told me a funni stori about the first wheelbarrow he had ever seen . It wa in sag harbor . the owner of hi ship , it seem , had lent him one , in which to carri hi heavi chest to hi board hous . not to seem ignor about the thing -- though in truth he wa entir so , concern the precis way in which to manag the barrow -- queequeg put hi chest upon it ; lash it fast ; and then shoulder the barrow and march up the wharf . `` whi , '' said I , `` queequeg , you might have known better than that , one would think . didn ' t the peopl laugh ? '' upon thi , he told me anoth stori . the peopl of hi island of rokovoko , it seem , at their wed feast express the fragrant water of young cocoanut into a larg stain calabash like a punchbowl ; and thi punchbowl alway form the great central ornament on the braid mat where the feast is held . now a certain grand merchant ship onc touch at rokovoko , and it command -- from all account , a veri state punctili gentleman , at least for a sea captain -- thi command wa invit to the wed feast of queequeg ' s sister , a pretti young princess just turn of ten . well ; when all the wed guest were assembl at the bride ' s bamboo cottag , thi captain march in , and be assign the post of honour , place himself over against the punchbowl , and between the high priest and hi majesti the king , queequeg ' s father . grace be said , -- for those peopl have their grace as well as we -- though queequeg told me that unlik us , who at such time look downward to our platter , they , on the contrari , copi the duck , glanc upward to the great giver of all feast -- grace , I say , be said , the high priest open the banquet by the immemori ceremoni of the island ; that is , dip hi consecr and consecr finger into the bowl befor the bless beverag circul . see himself place next the priest , and note the ceremoni , and think himself -- be captain of a ship -- as have plain preced over a mere island king , especi in the king ' s own hous -- the captain coolli proce to wash hi hand in the punchbowl ; -- take it I suppos for a huge finger - glass . `` now , '' said queequeg , `` what you tink now ? -- didn ' t our peopl laugh ? '' At last , passag paid , and luggag safe , we stood on board the schooner . hoist sail , it glide down the acushnet river . On one side , new bedford rose in terrac of street , their ice - cover tree all glitter in the clear , cold air . huge hill and mountain of cask on cask were pile upon her wharv , and side by side the world - wander whale ship lay silent and safe moor at last ; while from other came a sound of carpent and cooper , with blend nois of fire and forg to melt the pitch , all betoken that new cruis were on the start ; that one most peril and long voyag end , onli begin a second ; and a second end , onli begin a third , and so on , for ever and for aye . such is the endless , yea , the intoler of all earthli effort . gain the more open water , the brace breez wax fresh ; the littl moss toss the quick foam from her bow , as a young colt hi snort . how I snuf that tartar air ! -- how I spurn that turnpik earth ! -- that common highway all over dent with the mark of slavish heel and hoof ; and turn me to admir the magnanim of the sea which will permit no record . At the same foam - fountain , queequeg seem to drink and reel with me . hi duski nostril swell apart ; he show hi file and point teeth . On , on we flew ; and our of gain , the moss did homag to the blast ; duck and dive her bow as a slave befor the sultan . sideway lean , we sideway dart ; everi ropeyarn tingl like a wire ; the two tall mast buckl like indian cane in land tornado . So full of thi reel scene were we , as we stood by the plung bowsprit , that for some time we did not notic the jeer glanc of the passeng , a lubber - like assembl , who marvel that two fellow be should be so companion ; as though a white man were anyth more dignifi than a whitewash negro . but there were some boobi and bumpkin there , who , by their intens green , must have come from the heart and centr of all verdur . queequeg caught one of these young sapl mimick him behind hi back . I thought the bumpkin ' s hour of doom wa come . drop hi harpoon , the brawni savag caught him in hi arm , and by an almost miracul dexter and strength , sent him high up bodili into the air ; then slightli tap hi stern in mid - somerset , the fellow land with burst lung upon hi feet , while queequeg , turn hi back upon him , light hi tomahawk pipe and pass it to me for a puff . `` capt ! capt ! yell the bumpkin , run toward that offic ; `` capt , capt , here ' s the devil . '' `` hallo , you sir , '' cri the captain , a gaunt rib of the sea , stalk up to queequeg , `` what in thunder do you mean by that ? don ' t you know you might have kill that chap ? '' `` what him say ? '' said queequeg , as he mildli turn to me . `` He say , '' said I , `` that you came near kill - e that man there , '' point to the still shiver greenhorn . `` kill - e , '' cri queequeg , twist hi tattoo face into an unearthli express of disdain , `` ah ! him bevi small - e fish - e ; queequeg no kill - e so small - e fish - e ; queequeg kill - e big whale ! '' `` look you , '' roar the captain , `` I ' ll kill - e you , you cannib , if you tri ani more of your trick aboard here ; so mind your eye . '' but it so happen just then , that it wa high time for the captain to mind hi own eye . the prodigi strain upon the main - sail had part the weather - sheet , and the tremend boom wa now fli from side to side , complet sweep the entir after part of the deck . the poor fellow whom queequeg had handl so roughli , wa swept overboard ; all hand were in a panic ; and to attempt snatch at the boom to stay it , seem mad . It flew from right to left , and back again , almost in one tick of a watch , and everi instant seem on the point of snap into splinter . noth wa done , and noth seem capabl of be done ; those on deck rush toward the bow , and stood eye the boom as if it were the lower jaw of an exasper whale . In the midst of thi constern , queequeg drop deftli to hi knee , and crawl under the path of the boom , whip hold of a rope , secur one end to the bulwark , and then fling the other like a lasso , caught it round the boom as it swept over hi head , and at the next jerk , the spar wa that way trap , and all wa safe . the schooner wa run into the wind , and while the hand were clear away the stern boat , queequeg , strip to the waist , dart from the side with a long live arc of a leap . for three minut or more he wa seen swim like a dog , throw hi long arm straight out befor him , and by turn reveal hi brawni shoulder through the freez foam . I look at the grand and gloriou fellow , but saw no one to be save . the greenhorn had gone down . shoot himself perpendicularli from the water , queequeg , now took an instant ' s glanc around him , and seem to see just how matter were , dive down and disappear . A few minut more , and he rose again , one arm still strike out , and with the other drag a lifeless form . the boat soon pick them up . the poor bumpkin wa restor . all hand vote queequeg a nobl trump ; the captain beg hi pardon . from that hour I clove to queequeg like a barnacl ; yea , till poor queequeg took hi last long dive . wa there ever such unconsci ? He did not seem to think that he at all deserv a medal from the human and magnanim societi . He onli ask for water -- fresh water -- someth to wipe the brine off ; that done , he put on dri cloth , light hi pipe , and lean against the bulwark , and mildli eye those around him , seem to be say to himself -- '' It ' s a mutual , joint - stock world , in all meridian . We cannib must help these christian . '' chapter 14 nantucket . noth more happen on the passag worthi the mention ; so , after a fine run , we safe arriv in nantucket . nantucket ! take out your map and look at it . see what a real corner of the world it occupi ; how it stand there , away off shore , more lone than the eddyston lighthous . look at it -- a mere hillock , and elbow of sand ; all beach , without a background . there is more sand there than you would use in twenti year as a substitut for blot paper . some gamesom wight will tell you that they have to plant weed there , they don ' t grow natur ; that they import canada thistl ; that they have to send beyond sea for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask ; that piec of wood in nantucket are carri about like bit of the true cross in rome ; that peopl there plant toadstool befor their hous , to get under the shade in summer time ; that one blade of grass make an oasi , three blade in a day ' s walk a prairi ; that they wear quicksand shoe , someth like lapland snow - shoe ; that they are so shut up , belt about , everi way inclos , surround , and made an utter island of by the ocean , that to their veri chair and tabl small clam will sometim be found adher , as to the back of sea turtl . but these extravaganza onli show that nantucket is no illinoi . look now at the wondrou tradit stori of how thi island wa settl by the red - men . thu goe the legend . In olden time an eagl swoop down upon the new england coast , and carri off an infant indian in hi talon . with loud lament the parent saw their child born out of sight over the wide water . they resolv to follow in the same direct . set out in their cano , after a peril passag they discov the island , and there they found an empti ivori casket , -- the poor littl indian ' s skeleton . what wonder , then , that these nantucket , born on a beach , should take to the sea for a livelihood ! they first caught crab and quohog in the sand ; grown bolder , they wade out with net for mackerel ; more experienc , they push off in boat and captur cod ; and at last , launch a navi of great ship on the sea , explor thi wateri world ; put an incess belt of circumnavig round it ; peep in at behr ' s strait ; and in all season and all ocean declar everlast war with the mightiest anim mass that ha surviv the flood ; most monstrou and most mountain ! that himmalehan , salt - sea mastodon , cloth with such portent of unconsci power , that hi veri panic are more to be dread than hi most fearless and malici assault ! and thu have these nake nantucket , these sea hermit , issu from their ant - hill in the sea , overrun and conquer the wateri world like so mani alexand ; parcel out among them the atlant , pacif , and indian ocean , as the three pirat power did poland . let america add mexico to texa , and pile cuba upon canada ; let the english overswarm all india , and hang out their blaze banner from the sun ; two third of thi terraqu globe are the nantucket ' s . for the sea is hi ; he own it , as emperor own empir ; other seamen have but a right of way through it . merchant ship are but extens bridg ; arm one but float fort ; even pirat and privat , though follow the sea as highwaymen the road , they but plunder other ship , other fragment of the land like themselv , without seek to draw their live from the bottomless deep itself . the nantucket , he alon resid and riot on the sea ; he alon , in bibl languag , goe down to it in ship ; to and fro plough it as hi own special plantat . there is hi home ; there lie hi busi , which a noah ' s flood would not interrupt , though it overwhelm all the million in china . He live on the sea , as prairi cock in the prairi ; he hide among the wave , he climb them as chamoi hunter climb the alp . for year he know not the land ; so that when he come to it at last , it smell like anoth world , more strang than the moon would to an earthsman . with the landless gull , that at sunset fold her wing and is rock to sleep between billow ; so at nightfal , the nantucket , out of sight of land , furl hi sail , and lay him to hi rest , while under hi veri pillow rush herd of walrus and whale . chapter 15 chowder . It wa quit late in the even when the littl moss came snugli to anchor , and queequeg and I went ashor ; so we could attend to no busi that day , at least none but a supper and a bed . the landlord of the spouter - inn had recommend us to hi cousin hosea hussey of the tri pot , whom he assert to be the proprietor of one of the best kept hotel in all nantucket , and moreov he had assur us that cousin hosea , as he call him , wa famou for hi chowder . In short , he plainli hint that we could not possibl do better than tri pot - luck at the tri pot . but the direct he had given us about keep a yellow warehous on our starboard hand till we open a white church to the larboard , and then keep that on the larboard hand till we made a corner three point to the starboard , and that done , then ask the first man we met where the place wa : these crook direct of hi veri much puzzl us at first , especi as , at the outset , queequeg insist that the yellow warehous -- our first point of departur -- must be left on the larboard hand , wherea I had understood peter coffin to say it wa on the starboard . howev , by dint of beat about a littl in the dark , and now and then knock up a peaceabl inhabit to inquir the way , we at last came to someth which there wa no mistak . two enorm wooden pot paint black , and suspend by ass ' ear , swung from the cross - tree of an old top - mast , plant in front of an old doorway . the horn of the cross - tree were saw off on the other side , so that thi old top - mast look not a littl like a gallow . perhap I wa over sensit to such impress at the time , but I could not help stare at thi gallow with a vagu misgiv . A sort of crick wa in my neck as I gaze up to the two remain horn ; ye , two of them , one for queequeg , and one for me . It ' s omin , think I . A coffin my innkeep upon land in my first whale port ; tombston stare at me in the whalemen ' s chapel ; and here a gallow ! and a pair of prodigi black pot too ! are these last throw out obliqu hint touch tophet ? I wa call from these reflect by the sight of a freckl woman with yellow hair and a yellow gown , stand in the porch of the inn , under a dull red lamp swing there , that look much like an injur eye , and carri on a brisk scold with a man in a purpl woollen shirt . `` get along with ye , '' said she to the man , `` or I ' ll be comb ye ! '' `` come on , queequeg , '' said I , `` all right . there ' s mr . hussey . '' and so it turn out ; Mr . hosea hussey be from home , but leav mr . hussey entir compet to attend to all hi affair . upon make known our desir for a supper and a bed , mr . hussey , postpon further scold for the present , usher us into a littl room , and seat us at a tabl spread with the relic of a recent conclud repast , turn round to us and said -- '' clam or cod ? '' `` what ' s that about cod , ma ' am ? '' said I , with much polit . `` clam or cod ? '' she repeat . `` A clam for supper ? a cold clam ; is that what you mean , mr . hussey ? '' say I , `` but that ' s a rather cold and clammi recept in the winter time , ain ' t it , mr . hussey ? '' but be in a great hurri to resum scold the man in the purpl shirt , who wa wait for it in the entri , and seem to hear noth but the word `` clam , '' mr . hussey hurri toward an open door lead to the kitchen , and bawl out `` clam for two , '' disappear . `` queequeg , '' said I , `` do you think that we can make out a supper for us both on one clam ? '' howev , a warm savori steam from the kitchen serv to beli the appar cheerless prospect befor us . but when that smoke chowder came in , the mysteri wa delight explain . Oh , sweet friend ! hearken to me . It wa made of small juici clam , scarc bigger than hazel nut , mix with pound ship biscuit , and salt pork cut up into littl flake ; the whole enrich with butter , and plenti season with pepper and salt . our appetit be sharpen by the frosti voyag , and in particular , queequeg see hi favourit fish food befor him , and the chowder be surpassingli excel , we despatch it with great expedit : when lean back a moment and bethink me of mr . hussey ' s clam and cod announc , I thought I would tri a littl experi . step to the kitchen door , I utter the word `` cod `` with great emphasi , and resum my seat . In a few moment the savouri steam came forth again , but with a differ flavor , and in good time a fine cod - chowder wa place befor us . We resum busi ; and while pli our spoon in the bowl , think I to myself , I wonder now if thi here ha ani effect on the head ? what ' s that stultifi say about chowder - head peopl ? `` but look , queequeg , ain ' t that a live eel in your bowl ? where ' s your harpoon ? '' fishiest of all fishi place wa the tri pot , which well deserv it name ; for the pot there were alway boil chowder . chowder for breakfast , and chowder for dinner , and chowder for supper , till you began to look for fish - bone come through your cloth . the area befor the hous wa pave with clam - shell . mr . hussey wore a polish necklac of codfish vertebra ; and hosea hussey had hi account book bound in superior old shark - skin . there wa a fishi flavor to the milk , too , which I could not at all account for , till one morn happen to take a stroll along the beach among some fishermen ' s boat , I saw hosea ' s brindl cow feed on fish remnant , and march along the sand with each foot in a cod ' s decapit head , look veri slip - shod , I assur ye . supper conclud , we receiv a lamp , and direct from mr . hussey concern the nearest way to bed ; but , as queequeg wa about to preced me up the stair , the ladi reach forth her arm , and demand hi harpoon ; she allow no harpoon in her chamber . `` whi not ? said I ; `` everi true whaleman sleep with hi harpoon -- but whi not ? '' `` becaus it ' s danger , '' say she . `` ever sinc young stigg come from that unfort ' nt v ' y ' ge of hi , when he wa gone four year and a half , with onli three barrel of ile , wa found dead in my first floor back , with hi harpoon in hi side ; ever sinc then I allow no boarder to take sich danger weepon in their room at night . So , Mr . queequeg `` ( for she had learn hi name ) , `` I will just take thi here iron , and keep it for you till morn . but the chowder ; clam or cod to - morrow for breakfast , men ? '' `` both , '' say I ; `` and let ' s have a coupl of smoke her by way of varieti . '' chapter 16 the ship . In bed we concoct our plan for the morrow . but to my surpris and no small concern , queequeg now gave me to understand , that he had been dilig consult yojo -- the name of hi black littl god -- and yojo had told him two or three time over , and strongli insist upon it everyway , that instead of our go togeth among the whale - fleet in harbor , and in concert select our craft ; instead of thi , I say , yojo earnestli enjoin that the select of the ship should rest wholli with me , inasmuch as yojo purpos befriend us ; and , in order to do so , had alreadi pitch upon a vessel , which , if left to myself , I , ishmael , should infal light upon , for all the world as though it had turn out by chanc ; and in that vessel I must immedi ship myself , for the present irrespect of queequeg . I have forgotten to mention that , in mani thing , queequeg place great confid in the excel of yojo ' s judgment and surpris forecast of thing ; and cherish yojo with consider esteem , as a rather good sort of god , who perhap meant well enough upon the whole , but in all case did not succeed in hi benevol design . now , thi plan of queequeg ' s , or rather yojo ' s , touch the select of our craft ; I did not like that plan at all . I had not a littl reli upon queequeg ' s sagac to point out the whaler best fit to carri us and our fortun secur . but as all my remonstr produc no effect upon queequeg , I wa oblig to acquiesc ; and accordingli prepar to set about thi busi with a determin rush sort of energi and vigor , that should quickli settl that trifl littl affair . next morn earli , leav queequeg shut up with yojo in our littl bedroom -- for it seem that it wa some sort of lent or ramadan , or day of fast , humili , and prayer with queequeg and yojo that day ; how it wa I never could find out , for , though I appli myself to it sever time , I never could master hi liturgi and xxxix articl -- leav queequeg , then , fast on hi tomahawk pipe , and yojo warm himself at hi sacrifici fire of shave , I salli out among the ship . after much prolong saunter and mani random inquiri , I learnt that there were three ship up for three - year ' voyag -- the devil - dam , the tit - bit , and the pequod . devil - dam , I do not know the origin of ; tit - bit is obviou ; pequod , you will no doubt rememb , wa the name of a celebr tribe of massachusett indian ; now extinct as the ancient mede . I peer and pri about the devil - dam ; from her , hop over to the tit - bit ; and final , go on board the pequod , look around her for a moment , and then decid that thi wa the veri ship for us . you may have seen mani a quaint craft in your day , for aught I know ; -- squar - to lugger ; mountain japanes junk ; butter - box galliot , and what not ; but take my word for it , you never saw such a rare old craft as thi same rare old pequod . she wa a ship of the old school , rather small if anyth ; with an old - fashion claw - foot look about her . long season and weather - stain in the typhoon and calm of all four ocean , her old hull ' s complexion wa darken like a french grenadi ' s , who ha alik fought in egypt and siberia . her vener bow look beard . her mast -- cut somewher on the coast of japan , where her origin one were lost overboard in a gale -- her mast stood stiffli up like the spine of the three old king of cologn . her ancient deck were worn and wrinkl , like the pilgrim - worship flag - stone in canterburi cathedr where becket bled . but to all these her old antiqu , were ad new and marvel featur , pertain to the wild busi that for more than half a centuri she had follow . old captain peleg , mani year her chief - mate , befor he command anoth vessel of hi own , and now a retir seaman , and one of the princip owner of the pequod , -- thi old peleg , dure the term of hi chief - mateship , had built upon her origin grotesqu , and inlaid it , all over , with a quaint both of materi and devic , unmatch by anyth except it be thorkil - hake ' s carv buckler or bedstead . she wa apparel like ani barbar ethiopian emperor , hi neck heavi with pendant of polish ivori . she wa a thing of trophi . A cannib of a craft , trick herself forth in the chase bone of her enemi . all round , her unpanel , open bulwark were garnish like one continu jaw , with the long sharp teeth of the sperm whale , insert there for pin , to fasten her old hempen thew and tendon to . those thew ran not through base block of land wood , but deftli travel over sheav of sea - ivori . scorn a turnstil wheel at her reverend helm , she sport there a tiller ; and that tiller wa in one mass , curious carv from the long narrow lower jaw of her hereditari foe . the helmsman who steer by that tiller in a tempest , felt like the tartar , when he hold back hi fieri steed by clutch it jaw . A nobl craft , but somehow a most melancholi ! all nobl thing are touch with that . now when I look about the quarter - deck , for some one have author , in order to propos myself as a candid for the voyag , at first I saw nobodi ; but I could not well overlook a strang sort of tent , or rather wigwam , pitch a littl behind the main - mast . It seem onli a temporari erect use in port . It wa of a conic shape , some ten feet high ; consist of the long , huge slab of limber black bone taken from the middl and highest part of the jaw of the right - whale . plant with their broad end on the deck , a circl of these slab lace togeth , mutual slope toward each other , and at the apex unit in a tuft point , where the loos hairi fibr wave to and fro like the top - knot on some old pottowottami sachem ' s head . A triangular open face toward the bow of the ship , so that the insid command a complet view forward . and half conceal in thi queer tenement , I at length found one who by hi aspect seem to have author ; and who , it be noon , and the ship ' s work suspend , wa now enjoy respit from the burden of command . He wa seat on an old - fashion oaken chair , wriggl all over with curiou carv ; and the bottom of which wa form of a stout interlac of the same elast stuff of which the wigwam wa construct . there wa noth so veri particular , perhap , about the appear of the elderli man I saw ; he wa brown and brawni , like most old seamen , and heavili roll up in blue pilot - cloth , cut in the quaker style ; onli there wa a fine and almost microscop net - work of the minutest wrinkl interlac round hi eye , which must have arisen from hi continu sail in mani hard gale , and alway look to windward ; -- for thi caus the muscl about the eye to becom purs togeth . such eye - wrinkl are veri effectu in a scowl . `` Is thi the captain of the pequod ? '' said I , advanc to the door of the tent . `` suppos it be the captain of the pequod , what dost thou want of him ? '' he demand . `` I wa think of ship . '' `` thou wast , wast thou ? I see thou art no nantucket -- ever been in a stove boat ? '' `` No , sir , I never have . '' `` dost know noth at all about whale , I dare say -- eh ? `` noth , sir ; but I have no doubt I shall soon learn . I ' ve been sever voyag in the merchant servic , and I think that -- '' `` merchant servic be damn . talk not that lingo to me . dost see that leg ? -- I ' ll take that leg away from thi stern , if ever thou talkest of the marchant servic to me again . marchant servic inde ! I suppos now ye feel consider proud of have serv in those marchant ship . but fluke ! man , what make thee want to go a whale , eh ? -- it look a littl suspici , don ' t it , eh ? -- hast not been a pirat , hast thou ? -- didst not rob thi last captain , didst thou ? -- dost not think of murder the offic when thou gettest to sea ? '' I protest my innoc of these thing . I saw that under the mask of these half humor innuendo , thi old seaman , as an insul quakerish nantucket , wa full of hi insular prejudic , and rather distrust of all alien , unless they hail from cape cod or the vineyard . `` but what take thee a - whale ? I want to know that befor I think of ship ye . '' `` well , sir , I want to see what whale is . I want to see the world . '' `` want to see what whale is , eh ? have ye clap eye on captain ahab ? '' `` who is captain ahab , sir ? '' `` aye , aye , I thought so . captain ahab is the captain of thi ship . '' `` I am mistaken then . I thought I wa speak to the captain himself . '' `` thou art speak to captain peleg -- that ' s who ye are speak to , young man . It belong to me and captain bildad to see the pequod fit out for the voyag , and suppli with all her need , includ crew . We are part owner and agent . but as I wa go to say , if thou wantest to know what whale is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of find it out befor ye bind yourself to it , past back out . clap eye on captain ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he ha onli one leg . '' `` what do you mean , sir ? wa the other one lost by a whale ? '' `` lost by a whale ! young man , come nearer to me : it wa devour , chew up , crunch by the monstrousest parmacetti that ever chip a boat ! -- ah , ah ! '' I wa a littl alarm by hi energi , perhap also a littl touch at the hearti grief in hi conclud exclam , but said as calmli as I could , `` what you say is no doubt true enough , sir ; but how could I know there wa ani peculiar feroc in that particular whale , though inde I might have infer as much from the simpl fact of the accid . '' `` look ye now , young man , thi lung are a sort of soft , d ' ye see ; thou dost not talk shark a bit . sure , ye ' ve been to sea befor now ; sure of that ? '' `` sir , '' said I , `` I thought I told you that I had been four voyag in the merchant -- '' `` hard down out of that ! mind what I said about the marchant servic -- don ' t aggrav me -- I won ' t have it . but let us understand each other . I have given thee a hint about what whale is ; do ye yet feel inclin for it ? '' `` I do , sir . '' `` veri good . now , art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale ' s throat , and then jump after it ? answer , quick ! '' `` I am , sir , if it should be posit indispens to do so ; not to be got rid of , that is ; which I don ' t take to be the fact . '' `` good again . now then , thou not onli wantest to go a - whale , to find out by experi what whale is , but ye also want to go in order to see the world ? wa not that what ye said ? I thought so . well then , just step forward there , and take a peep over the weather - bow , and then back to me and tell me what ye see there . '' for a moment I stood a littl puzzl by thi curiou request , not know exactli how to take it , whether humor or in earnest . but concentr all hi crow ' s feet into one scowl , captain peleg start me on the errand . go forward and glanc over the weather bow , I perceiv that the ship swing to her anchor with the flood - tide , wa now obliqu point toward the open ocean . the prospect wa unlimit , but exceedingli monoton and forbid ; not the slightest varieti that I could see . `` well , what ' s the report ? '' said peleg when I came back ; `` what did ye see ? '' `` not much , '' I repli -- '' noth but water ; consider horizon though , and there ' s a squall come up , I think . '' `` well , what doe thou think then of see the world ? Do ye wish to go round cape horn to see ani more of it , eh ? can ' t ye see the world where you stand ? '' I wa a littl stagger , but go a - whale I must , and I would ; and the pequod wa as good a ship as ani -- I thought the best -- and all thi I now repeat to peleg . see me so determin , he express hi willing to ship me . `` and thou mayest as well sign the paper right off , '' he ad -- '' come along with ye . '' and so say , he led the way below deck into the cabin . seat on the transom wa what seem to me a most uncommon and surpris figur . It turn out to be captain bildad , who along with captain peleg wa one of the largest owner of the vessel ; the other share , as is sometim the case in these port , be held by a crowd of old annuit ; widow , fatherless children , and chanceri ward ; each own about the valu of a timber head , or a foot of plank , or a nail or two in the ship . peopl in nantucket invest their money in whale vessel , the same way that you do your in approv state stock bring in good interest . now , bildad , like peleg , and inde mani other nantucket , wa a quaker , the island have been origin settl by that sect ; and to thi day it inhabit in gener retain in an uncommon measur the peculiar of the quaker , onli various and anomal modifi by thing altogeth alien and heterogen . for some of these same quaker are the most sanguinari of all sailor and whale - hunter . they are fight quaker ; they are quaker with a vengeanc . So that there are instanc among them of men , who , name with scriptur name -- a singularli common fashion on the island -- and in childhood natur imbib the state dramat thee and thou of the quaker idiom ; still , from the audaci , dare , and boundless adventur of their subsequ live , strang blend with these unoutgrown peculiar , a thousand bold dash of charact , not unworthi a scandinavian sea - king , or a poetic pagan roman . and when these thing unit in a man of greatli superior natur forc , with a globular brain and a ponder heart ; who ha also by the still and seclus of mani long night - watch in the remotest water , and beneath constel never seen here at the north , been led to think untradit and independ ; receiv all natur ' s sweet or savag impress fresh from her own virgin voluntari and confid breast , and therebi chiefli , but with some help from accident advantag , to learn a bold and nervou lofti languag -- that man make one in a whole nation ' s censu -- a mighti pageant creatur , form for nobl tragedi . nor will it at all detract from him , dramat regard , if either by birth or other circumst , he have what seem a half wil overrul morbid at the bottom of hi natur . for all men tragic great are made so through a certain morbid . Be sure of thi , O young ambit , all mortal great is but diseas . but , as yet we have not to do with such an one , but with quit anoth ; and still a man , who , if inde peculiar , it onli result again from anoth phase of the quaker , modifi by individu circumst . like captain peleg , captain bildad wa a well - to - do , retir whaleman . but unlik captain peleg -- who care not a rush for what are call seriou thing , and inde deem those self - same seriou thing the veriest of all trifl -- captain bildad had not onli been origin educ accord to the strictest sect of nantucket quaker , but all hi subsequ ocean life , and the sight of mani unclad , love island creatur , round the horn -- all that had not move thi nativ born quaker one singl jot , had not so much as alter one angl of hi vest . still , for all thi immut , wa there some lack of common consist about worthi captain peleg . though refus , from conscienti scrupl , to bear arm against land invad , yet himself had illimit invad the atlant and pacif ; and though a sworn foe to human bloodsh , yet had he in hi straight - bodi coat , spill tun upon tun of leviathan gore . how now in the contempl even of hi day , the piou bildad reconcil these thing in the reminisc , I do not know ; but it did not seem to concern him much , and veri probabl he had long sinc come to the sage and sensibl conclus that a man ' s religion is one thing , and thi practic world quit anoth . thi world pay dividend . rise from a littl cabin - boy in short cloth of the drabbest drab , to a harpoon in a broad shad - belli waistcoat ; from that becom boat - header , chief - mate , and captain , and final a ship owner ; bildad , as I hint befor , had conclud hi adventur career by wholli retir from activ life at the goodli age of sixti , and dedic hi remain day to the quiet receiv of hi well - earn incom . now , bildad , I am sorri to say , had the reput of be an incorrig old hunk , and in hi sea - go day , a bitter , hard task - master . they told me in nantucket , though it certainli seem a curiou stori , that when he sail the old categut whaleman , hi crew , upon arriv home , were mostli all carri ashor to the hospit , sore exhaust and worn out . for a piou man , especi for a quaker , he wa certainli rather hard - heart , to say the least . He never use to swear , though , at hi men , they said ; but somehow he got an inordin quantiti of cruel , unmitig hard work out of them . when bildad wa a chief - mate , to have hi drab - colour eye intent look at you , made you feel complet nervou , till you could clutch someth -- a hammer or a marl - spike , and go to work like mad , at someth or other , never mind what . indol and idl perish befor him . hi own person wa the exact embodi of hi utilitarian charact . On hi long , gaunt bodi , he carri no spare flesh , no superflu beard , hi chin have a soft , econom nap to it , like the worn nap of hi broad - brim hat . such , then , wa the person that I saw seat on the transom when I follow captain peleg down into the cabin . the space between the deck wa small ; and there , bolt - upright , sat old bildad , who alway sat so , and never lean , and thi to save hi coat tail . hi broad - brim wa place besid him ; hi leg were stiffli cross ; hi drab vestur wa button up to hi chin ; and spectacl on nose , he seem absorb in read from a ponder volum . `` bildad , '' cri captain peleg , `` at it again , bildad , eh ? Ye have been studi those scriptur , now , for the last thirti year , to my certain knowledg . how far ye got , bildad ? '' As if long habitu to such profan talk from hi old shipmat , bildad , without notic hi present irrever , quietli look up , and see me , glanc again inquiringli toward peleg . `` He say he ' s our man , bildad , '' said peleg , `` he want to ship . '' `` dost thee ? '' said bildad , in a hollow tone , and turn round to me . `` I dost , '' said I unconsci , he wa so intens a quaker . `` what do ye think of him , bildad ? '' said peleg . `` He ' ll do , '' said bildad , eye me , and then went on spell away at hi book in a mumbl tone quit audibl . I thought him the queerest old quaker I ever saw , especi as peleg , hi friend and old shipmat , seem such a bluster . but I said noth , onli look round me sharpli . peleg now threw open a chest , and draw forth the ship ' s articl , place pen and ink befor him , and seat himself at a littl tabl . I began to think it wa high time to settl with myself at what term I would be will to engag for the voyag . I wa alreadi awar that in the whale busi they paid no wage ; but all hand , includ the captain , receiv certain share of the profit call lay , and that these lay were proport to the degre of import pertain to the respect duti of the ship ' s compani . I wa also awar that be a green hand at whale , my own lay would not be veri larg ; but consid that I wa use to the sea , could steer a ship , splice a rope , and all that , I made no doubt that from all I had heard I should be offer at least the 275th lay -- that is , the 275th part of the clear net proce of the voyag , whatev that might eventu amount to . and though the 275th lay wa what they call a rather long lay , yet it wa better than noth ; and if we had a lucki voyag , might pretti nearli pay for the cloth I would wear out on it , not to speak of my three year ' beef and board , for which I would not have to pay one stiver . It might be thought that thi wa a poor way to accumul a princ fortun -- and so it wa , a veri poor way inde . but I am one of those that never take on about princ fortun , and am quit content if the world is readi to board and lodg me , while I am put up at thi grim sign of the thunder cloud . upon the whole , I thought that the 275th lay would be about the fair thing , but would not have been surpris had I been offer the 200th , consid I wa of a broad - shoulder make . but one thing , nevertheless , that made me a littl distrust about receiv a gener share of the profit wa thi : ashor , I had heard someth of both captain peleg and hi unaccount old croni bildad ; how that they be the princip proprietor of the pequod , therefor the other and more inconsider and scatter owner , left nearli the whole manag of the ship ' s affair to these two . and I did not know but what the stingi old bildad might have a mighti deal to say about ship hand , especi as I now found him on board the pequod , quit at home there in the cabin , and read hi bibl as if at hi own firesid . now while peleg wa vainli tri to mend a pen with hi jack - knife , old bildad , to my no small surpris , consid that he wa such an interest parti in these proceed ; bildad never heed us , but went on mumbl to himself out of hi book , `` lay not up for yourselv treasur upon earth , where moth -- '' `` well , captain bildad , '' interrupt peleg , `` what d ' ye say , what lay shall we give thi young man ? '' `` thou knowest best , '' wa the sepulchr repli , `` the seven hundr and seventi - seventh wouldn ' t be too much , would it ? -- ' where moth and rust do corrupt , but lay -- ' '' lay , inde , thought I , and such a lay ! the seven hundr and seventi - seventh ! well , old bildad , you are determin that I , for one , shall not lay up mani lay here below , where moth and rust do corrupt . It wa an exceedingli long lay that , inde ; and though from the magnitud of the figur it might at first deceiv a landsman , yet the slightest consider will show that though seven hundr and seventi - seven is a pretti larg number , yet , when you come to make a teenth of it , you will then see , I say , that the seven hundr and seventi - seventh part of a farth is a good deal less than seven hundr and seventi - seven gold doubloon ; and so I thought at the time . `` whi , blast your eye , bildad , '' cri peleg , `` thou dost not want to swindl thi young man ! he must have more than that . '' `` seven hundr and seventi - seventh , '' again said bildad , without lift hi eye ; and then went on mumbl -- '' for where your treasur is , there will your heart be also . '' `` I am go to put him down for the three hundredth , '' said peleg , `` do ye hear that , bildad ! the three hundredth lay , I say . '' bildad laid down hi book , and turn solemnli toward him said , `` captain peleg , thou hast a gener heart ; but thou must consid the duti thou owest to the other owner of thi ship -- widow and orphan , mani of them -- and that if we too abundantli reward the labor of thi young man , we may be take the bread from those widow and those orphan . the seven hundr and seventi - seventh lay , captain peleg . '' `` thou bildad ! '' roar peleg , start up and clatter about the cabin . `` blast ye , captain bildad , if I had follow thi advic in these matter , I would afor now had a conscienc to lug about that would be heavi enough to founder the largest ship that ever sail round cape horn . '' `` captain peleg , '' said bildad steadili , `` thi conscienc may be draw ten inch of water , or ten fathom , I can ' t tell ; but as thou art still an impenit man , captain peleg , I greatli fear lest thi conscienc be but a leaki one ; and will in the end sink thee founder down to the fieri pit , captain peleg . '' `` fieri pit ! fieri pit ! ye insult me , man ; past all natur bear , ye insult me . It ' s an all - fire outrag to tell ani human creatur that he ' s bound to hell . fluke and flame ! bildad , say that again to me , and start my soul - bolt , but I ' ll -- I ' ll -- ye , I ' ll swallow a live goat with all hi hair and horn on . out of the cabin , ye cant , drab - colour son of a wooden gun -- a straight wake with ye ! '' As he thunder out thi he made a rush at bildad , but with a marvel obliqu , slide celer , bildad for that time elud him . alarm at thi terribl outburst between the two princip and respons owner of the ship , and feel half a mind to give up all idea of sail in a vessel so question own and temporarili command , I step asid from the door to give egress to bildad , who , I made no doubt , wa all eager to vanish from befor the awaken wrath of peleg . but to my astonish , he sat down again on the transom veri quietli , and seem to have not the slightest intent of withdraw . He seem quit use to impenit peleg and hi way . As for peleg , after let off hi rage as he had , there seem no more left in him , and he , too , sat down like a lamb , though he twitch a littl as if still nervous agit . `` whew ! '' he whistl at last -- '' the squall ' s gone off to leeward , I think . bildad , thou use to be good at sharpen a lanc , mend that pen , will ye . My jack - knife here need the grindston . that ' s he ; thank ye , bildad . now then , my young man , ishmael ' s thi name , didn ' t ye say ? well then , down ye go here , ishmael , for the three hundredth lay . '' `` captain peleg , '' said I , `` I have a friend with me who want to ship too -- shall I bring him down to - morrow ? '' `` To be sure , '' said peleg . `` fetch him along , and we ' ll look at him . '' `` what lay doe he want ? '' groan bildad , glanc up from the book in which he had again been buri himself . `` Oh ! never thee mind about that , bildad , '' said peleg . `` ha he ever whale it ani ? '' turn to me . `` kill more whale than I can count , captain peleg . '' `` well , bring him along then . '' and , after sign the paper , off I went ; noth doubt but that I had done a good morn ' s work , and that the pequod wa the ident ship that yojo had provid to carri queequeg and me round the cape . but I had not proceed far , when I began to bethink me that the captain with whom I wa to sail yet remain unseen by me ; though , inde , in mani case , a whale - ship will be complet fit out , and receiv all her crew on board , ere the captain make himself visibl by arriv to take command ; for sometim these voyag are so prolong , and the shore interv at home so exceedingli brief , that if the captain have a famili , or ani absorb concern of that sort , he doe not troubl himself much about hi ship in port , but leav her to the owner till all is readi for sea . howev , it is alway as well to have a look at him befor irrevoc commit yourself into hi hand . turn back I accost captain peleg , inquir where captain ahab wa to be found . `` and what dost thou want of captain ahab ? It ' s all right enough ; thou art ship . '' `` ye , but I should like to see him . '' `` but I don ' t think thou wilt be abl to at present . I don ' t know exactli what ' s the matter with him ; but he keep close insid the hous ; a sort of sick , and yet he don ' t look so . In fact , he ain ' t sick ; but no , he isn ' t well either . ani how , young man , he won ' t alway see me , so I don ' t suppos he will thee . He ' s a queer man , captain ahab -- so some think -- but a good one . Oh , thou ' lt like him well enough ; no fear , no fear . He ' s a grand , ungodli , god - like man , captain ahab ; doesn ' t speak much ; but , when he doe speak , then you may well listen . mark ye , be forewarn ; ahab ' s abov the common ; ahab ' s been in colleg , as well as ' mong the cannib ; been use to deeper wonder than the wave ; fix hi fieri lanc in mightier , stranger foe than whale . hi lanc ! aye , the keenest and the surest that out of all our isl ! Oh ! he ain ' t captain bildad ; no , and he ain ' t captain peleg ; HE ' S ahab , boy ; and ahab of old , thou knowest , wa a crown king ! '' `` and a veri vile one . when that wick king wa slain , the dog , did they not lick hi blood ? '' `` come hither to me -- hither , hither , '' said peleg , with a signific in hi eye that almost startl me . `` look ye , lad ; never say that on board the pequod . never say it anywher . captain ahab did not name himself . ' twa a foolish , ignor whim of hi crazi , widow mother , who die when he wa onli a twelvemonth old . and yet the old squaw tistig , at gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophet . and , perhap , other fool like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know captain ahab well ; I ' ve sail with him as mate year ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a piou , good man , like bildad , but a swear good man -- someth like me -- onli there ' s a good deal more of him . aye , aye , I know that he wa never veri jolli ; and I know that on the passag home , he wa a littl out of hi mind for a spell ; but it wa the sharp shoot pain in hi bleed stump that brought that about , as ani one might see . I know , too , that ever sinc he lost hi leg last voyag by that accurs whale , he ' s been a kind of moodi -- desper moodi , and savag sometim ; but that will all pass off . and onc for all , let me tell thee and assur thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moodi good captain than a laugh bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not captain ahab , becaus he happen to have a wick name . besid , my boy , he ha a wife -- not three voyag wed -- a sweet , resign girl . think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man ha a child : hold ye then there can be ani utter , hopeless harm in ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blast , if he be , ahab ha hi human ! '' As I walk away , I wa full of thought ; what had been incident reveal to me of captain ahab , fill me with a certain wild vagu of pain concern him . and somehow , at the time , I felt a sympathi and a sorrow for him , but for I don ' t know what , unless it wa the cruel loss of hi leg . and yet I also felt a strang awe of him ; but that sort of awe , which I can not at all describ , wa not exactli awe ; I do not know what it wa . but I felt it ; and it did not disinclin me toward him ; though I felt impati at what seem like mysteri in him , so imperfectli as he wa known to me then . howev , my thought were at length carri in other direct , so that for the present dark ahab slip my mind . chapter 17 the ramadan . As queequeg ' s ramadan , or fast and humili , wa to continu all day , I did not choos to disturb him till toward night - fall ; for I cherish the greatest respect toward everybodi ' s religi oblig , never mind how comic , and could not find it in my heart to undervalu even a congreg of ant worship a toad - stool ; or those other creatur in certain part of our earth , who with a degre of footman quit unpreced in other planet , bow down befor the torso of a deceas land proprietor mere on account of the inordin possess yet own and rent in hi name . I say , we good presbyterian christian should be charit in these thing , and not fanci ourselv so vastli superior to other mortal , pagan and what not , becaus of their half - crazi conceit on these subject . there wa queequeg , now , certainli entertain the most absurd notion about yojo and hi ramadan ; -- but what of that ? queequeg thought he knew what he wa about , I suppos ; he seem to be content ; and there let him rest . all our argu with him would not avail ; let him be , I say : and heaven have merci on us all -- presbyterian and pagan alik -- for we are all somehow dread crack about the head , and sadli need mend . toward even , when I felt assur that all hi perform and ritual must be over , I went up to hi room and knock at the door ; but no answer . I tri to open it , but it wa fasten insid . `` queequeg , '' said I softli through the key - hole : -- all silent . `` I say , queequeg ! whi don ' t you speak ? It ' s I -- ishmael . '' but all remain still as befor . I began to grow alarm . I had allow him such abund time ; I thought he might have had an apoplect fit . I look through the key - hole ; but the door open into an odd corner of the room , the key - hole prospect wa but a crook and sinist one . I could onli see part of the foot - board of the bed and a line of the wall , but noth more . I wa surpris to behold rest against the wall the wooden shaft of queequeg ' s harpoon , which the landladi the even previou had taken from him , befor our mount to the chamber . that ' s strang , thought I ; but at ani rate , sinc the harpoon stand yonder , and he seldom or never goe abroad without it , therefor he must be insid here , and no possibl mistak . `` queequeg ! -- queequeg ! '' -- all still . someth must have happen . apoplexi ! I tri to burst open the door ; but it stubbornli resist . run down stair , I quickli state my suspicion to the first person I met -- the chamber - maid . `` La ! la ! '' she cri , `` I thought someth must be the matter . I went to make the bed after breakfast , and the door wa lock ; and not a mous to be heard ; and it ' s been just so silent ever sinc . but I thought , may be , you had both gone off and lock your baggag in for safe keep . La ! la , ma ' am ! -- mistress ! murder ! mr . hussey ! apoplexi ! '' -- and with these cri , she ran toward the kitchen , I follow . mr . hussey soon appear , with a mustard - pot in one hand and a vinegar - cruet in the other , have just broken away from the occup of attend to the castor , and scold her littl black boy meantim . `` wood - hous ! '' cri I , `` which way to it ? run for god ' s sake , and fetch someth to pri open the door -- the axe ! -- the axe ! he ' s had a stroke ; depend upon it ! '' -- and so say I wa unmethod rush up stair again empti - hand , when mr . hussey interpos the mustard - pot and vinegar - cruet , and the entir castor of her counten . `` what ' s the matter with you , young man ? '' `` get the axe ! for god ' s sake , run for the doctor , some one , while I pri it open ! '' `` look here , '' said the landladi , quickli put down the vinegar - cruet , so as to have one hand free ; `` look here ; are you talk about pri open ani of my door ? '' -- and with that she seiz my arm . `` what ' s the matter with you ? what ' s the matter with you , shipmat ? '' In as calm , but rapid a manner as possibl , I gave her to understand the whole case . unconsci clap the vinegar - cruet to one side of her nose , she rumin for an instant ; then exclaim -- '' No ! I haven ' t seen it sinc I put it there . '' run to a littl closet under the land of the stair , she glanc in , and return , told me that queequeg ' s harpoon wa miss . `` He ' s kill himself , '' she cri . `` It ' s unfort ' nate stigg done over again there goe anoth counterpan -- god piti hi poor mother ! -- it will be the ruin of my hous . ha the poor lad a sister ? where ' s that girl ? -- there , betti , go to snarl the painter , and tell him to paint me a sign , with -- '' no suicid permit here , and no smoke in the parlor ; '' -- might as well kill both bird at onc . kill ? the lord be merci to hi ghost ! what ' s that nois there ? you , young man , avast there ! '' and run up after me , she caught me as I wa again tri to forc open the door . `` I don ' t allow it ; I won ' t have my premis spoil . Go for the locksmith , there ' s one about a mile from here . but avast ! '' put her hand in her side - pocket , `` here ' s a key that ' ll fit , I guess ; let ' s see . '' and with that , she turn it in the lock ; but , ala ! queequeg ' s supplement bolt remain unwithdrawn within . `` have to burst it open , '' said I , and wa run down the entri a littl , for a good start , when the landladi caught at me , again vow I should not break down her premis ; but I tore from her , and with a sudden bodili rush dash myself full against the mark . with a prodigi nois the door flew open , and the knob slam against the wall , sent the plaster to the ceil ; and there , good heaven ! there sat queequeg , altogeth cool and self - collect ; right in the middl of the room ; squat on hi ham , and hold yojo on top of hi head . He look neither one way nor the other way , but sat like a carv imag with scarc a sign of activ life . `` queequeg , '' said I , go up to him , `` queequeg , what ' s the matter with you ? '' `` He hain ' t been a sittin ' so all day , ha he ? '' said the landladi . but all we said , not a word could we drag out of him ; I almost felt like push him over , so as to chang hi posit , for it wa almost intoler , it seem so pain and unnatur constrain ; especi , as in all probabl he had been sit so for upward of eight or ten hour , go too without hi regular meal . `` mr . hussey , '' said I , `` he ' s aliv at all event ; so leav us , if you pleas , and I will see to thi strang affair myself . '' close the door upon the landladi , I endeavor to prevail upon queequeg to take a chair ; but in vain . there he sat ; and all he could do -- for all my polit art and blandish -- he would not move a peg , nor say a singl word , nor even look at me , nor notic my presenc in the slightest way . I wonder , thought I , if thi can possibl be a part of hi ramadan ; do they fast on their ham that way in hi nativ island . It must be so ; ye , it ' s part of hi creed , I suppos ; well , then , let him rest ; he ' ll get up sooner or later , no doubt . It can ' t last for ever , thank god , and hi ramadan onli come onc a year ; and I don ' t believ it ' s veri punctual then . I went down to supper . after sit a long time listen to the long stori of some sailor who had just come from a plum - pud voyag , as they call it ( that is , a short whale - voyag in a schooner or brig , confin to the north of the line , in the atlant ocean onli ) ; after listen to these plum - pudding till nearli eleven o ' clock , I went up stair to go to bed , feel quit sure by thi time queequeg must certainli have brought hi ramadan to a termin . but no ; there he wa just where I had left him ; he had not stir an inch . I began to grow vex with him ; it seem so downright senseless and insan to be sit there all day and half the night on hi ham in a cold room , hold a piec of wood on hi head . `` for heaven ' s sake , queequeg , get up and shake yourself ; get up and have some supper . you ' ll starv ; you ' ll kill yourself , queequeg . '' but not a word did he repli . despair of him , therefor , I determin to go to bed and to sleep ; and no doubt , befor a great while , he would follow me . but previou to turn in , I took my heavi bearskin jacket , and threw it over him , as it promis to be a veri cold night ; and he had noth but hi ordinari round jacket on . for some time , do all I would , I could not get into the faintest doze . I had blown out the candl ; and the mere thought of queequeg -- not four feet off -- sit there in that uneasi posit , stark alon in the cold and dark ; thi made me realli wretch . think of it ; sleep all night in the same room with a wide awak pagan on hi ham in thi dreari , unaccount ramadan ! but somehow I drop off at last , and knew noth more till break of day ; when , look over the bedsid , there squat queequeg , as if he had been screw down to the floor . but as soon as the first glimps of sun enter the window , up he got , with stiff and grate joint , but with a cheer look ; limp toward me where I lay ; press hi forehead again against mine ; and said hi ramadan wa over . now , as I befor hint , I have no object to ani person ' s religion , be it what it may , so long as that person doe not kill or insult ani other person , becaus that other person don ' t believ it also . but when a man ' s religion becom realli frantic ; when it is a posit torment to him ; and , in fine , make thi earth of our an uncomfort inn to lodg in ; then I think it high time to take that individu asid and argu the point with him . and just so I now did with queequeg . `` queequeg , '' said I , `` get into bed now , and lie and listen to me . '' I then went on , begin with the rise and progress of the primit religion , and come down to the variou religion of the present time , dure which time I labor to show queequeg that all these lent , ramadan , and prolong ham - squat in cold , cheerless room were stark nonsens ; bad for the health ; useless for the soul ; oppos , in short , to the obviou law of hygien and common sens . I told him , too , that he be in other thing such an extrem sensibl and sagaci savag , it pain me , veri badli pain me , to see him now so deplor foolish about thi ridicul ramadan of hi . besid , argu I , fast make the bodi cave in ; henc the spirit cave in ; and all thought born of a fast must necessarili be half - starv . thi is the reason whi most dyspept religionist cherish such melancholi notion about their hereaft . In one word , queequeg , said I , rather digress ; hell is an idea first born on an undigest appl - dumpl ; and sinc then perpetu through the hereditari dyspepsia nurtur by ramadan . I then ask queequeg whether he himself wa ever troubl with dyspepsia ; express the idea veri plainli , so that he could take it in . He said no ; onli upon one memor occas . It wa after a great feast given by hi father the king , on the gain of a great battl wherein fifti of the enemi had been kill by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cook and eaten that veri even . `` No more , queequeg , '' said I , shudder ; `` that will do ; '' for I knew the infer without hi further hint them . I had seen a sailor who had visit that veri island , and he told me that it wa the custom , when a great battl had been gain there , to barbecu all the slain in the yard or garden of the victor ; and then , one by one , they were place in great wooden trencher , and garnish round like a pilau , with breadfruit and cocoanut ; and with some parsley in their mouth , were sent round with the victor ' s compliment to all hi friend , just as though these present were so mani christma turkey . after all , I do not think that my remark about religion made much impress upon queequeg . becaus , in the first place , he somehow seem dull of hear on that import subject , unless consid from hi own point of view ; and , in the second place , he did not more than one third understand me , couch my idea simpli as I would ; and , final , he no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about the true religion than I did . He look at me with a sort of condescend concern and compass , as though he thought it a great piti that such a sensibl young man should be so hopelessli lost to evangel pagan pieti . At last we rose and dress ; and queequeg , take a prodigi hearti breakfast of chowder of all sort , so that the landladi should not make much profit by reason of hi ramadan , we salli out to board the pequod , saunter along , and pick our teeth with halibut bone . chapter 18 hi mark . As we were walk down the end of the wharf toward the ship , queequeg carri hi harpoon , captain peleg in hi gruff voic loudli hail us from hi wigwam , say he had not suspect my friend wa a cannib , and furthermor announc that he let no cannib on board that craft , unless they previous produc their paper . `` what do you mean by that , captain peleg ? '' said I , now jump on the bulwark , and leav my comrad stand on the wharf . `` I mean , '' he repli , `` he must show hi paper . '' `` ye , '' said captain bildad in hi hollow voic , stick hi head from behind peleg ' s , out of the wigwam . `` He must show that he ' s convert . son of dark , '' he ad , turn to queequeg , `` art thou at present in communion with ani christian church ? '' `` whi , '' said I , `` he ' s a member of the first congreg church . '' here be it said , that mani tattoo savag sail in nantucket ship at last come to be convert into the church . `` first congreg church , '' cri bildad , `` what ! that worship in deacon deuteronomi coleman ' s meet - hous ? '' and so say , take out hi spectacl , he rub them with hi great yellow bandana handkerchief , and put them on veri care , came out of the wigwam , and lean stiffli over the bulwark , took a good long look at queequeg . `` how long hath he been a member ? '' he then said , turn to me ; `` not veri long , I rather guess , young man . '' `` No , '' said peleg , `` and he hasn ' t been baptiz right either , or it would have wash some of that devil ' s blue off hi face . '' `` Do tell , now , '' cri bildad , `` is thi philistin a regular member of deacon deuteronomi ' s meet ? I never saw him go there , and I pass it everi lord ' s day . '' `` I don ' t know anyth about deacon deuteronomi or hi meet , '' said I ; `` all I know is , that queequeg here is a born member of the first congreg church . He is a deacon himself , queequeg is . '' `` young man , '' said bildad sternli , `` thou art skylark with me -- explain thyself , thou young hittit . what church dost thee mean ? answer me . '' find myself thu hard push , I repli . `` I mean , sir , the same ancient cathol church to which you and I , and captain peleg there , and queequeg here , and all of us , and everi mother ' s son and soul of us belong ; the great and everlast first congreg of thi whole worship world ; we all belong to that ; onli some of us cherish some queer crotchet no way touch the grand belief ; in that we all join hand . '' `` splice , thou mean ' st splice hand , '' cri peleg , draw nearer . `` young man , you ' d better ship for a missionari , instead of a fore - mast hand ; I never heard a better sermon . deacon deuteronomi -- whi father mappl himself couldn ' t beat it , and he ' s reckon someth . come aboard , come aboard ; never mind about the paper . I say , tell quohog there -- what ' s that you call him ? tell quohog to step along . By the great anchor , what a harpoon he ' s got there ! look like good stuff that ; and he handl it about right . I say , quohog , or whatev your name is , did you ever stand in the head of a whale - boat ? did you ever strike a fish ? '' without say a word , queequeg , in hi wild sort of way , jump upon the bulwark , from thenc into the bow of one of the whale - boat hang to the side ; and then brace hi left knee , and pois hi harpoon , cri out in some such way as thi : -- `` cap ' ain , you see him small drop tar on water dere ? you see him ? well , spose him one whale eye , well , den ! '' and take sharp aim at it , he dart the iron right over old bildad ' s broad brim , clean across the ship ' s deck , and struck the glisten tar spot out of sight . `` now , '' said queequeg , quietli haul in the line , `` spo - ee him whale - e eye ; whi , dad whale dead . '' `` quick , bildad , '' said peleg , hi partner , who , aghast at the close vicin of the fli harpoon , had retreat toward the cabin gangway . `` quick , I say , you bildad , and get the ship ' s paper . We must have hedgehog there , I mean quohog , in one of our boat . look ye , quohog , we ' ll give ye the ninetieth lay , and that ' s more than ever wa given a harpoon yet out of nantucket . '' So down we went into the cabin , and to my great joy queequeg wa soon enrol among the same ship ' s compani to which I myself belong . when all preliminari were over and peleg had got everyth readi for sign , he turn to me and said , `` I guess , quohog there don ' t know how to write , doe he ? I say , quohog , blast ye ! dost thou sign thi name or make thi mark ? but at thi question , queequeg , who had twice or thrice befor taken part in similar ceremoni , look no way abash ; but take the offer pen , copi upon the paper , in the proper place , an exact counterpart of a queer round figur which wa tattoo upon hi arm ; so that through captain peleg ' s obstin mistak touch hi appel , it stood someth like thi : -- quohog . hi X mark . meanwhil captain bildad sat earnestli and steadfastli eye queequeg , and at last rise solemnli and fumbl in the huge pocket of hi broad - skirt drab coat , took out a bundl of tract , and select one entitl `` the latter day come ; or No time to lose , '' place it in queequeg ' s hand , and then grasp them and the book with both hi , look earnestli into hi eye , and said , `` son of dark , I must do my duti by thee ; I am part owner of thi ship , and feel concern for the soul of all it crew ; if thou still clingest to thi pagan way , which I sadli fear , I beseech thee , remain not for aye a belial bondsman . spurn the idol bell , and the hideou dragon ; turn from the wrath to come ; mind thine eye , I say ; oh ! good graciou ! steer clear of the fieri pit ! '' someth of the salt sea yet linger in old bildad ' s languag , heterogen mix with scriptur and domest phrase . `` avast there , avast there , bildad , avast now spoil our harpoon , '' peleg . `` piou harpoon never make good voyag -- it take the shark out of ' em ; no harpoon is worth a straw who aint pretti sharkish . there wa young nat swain , onc the bravest boat - header out of all nantucket and the vineyard ; he join the meet , and never came to good . He got so frighten about hi plaguy soul , that he shrink and sheer away from whale , for fear of after - clap , in case he got stove and went to davi jone . '' `` peleg ! peleg ! '' said bildad , lift hi eye and hand , `` thou thyself , as I myself , hast seen mani a peril time ; thou knowest , peleg , what it is to have the fear of death ; how , then , can ' st thou prate in thi ungodli guis . thou beliest thine own heart , peleg . tell me , when thi same pequod here had her three mast overboard in that typhoon on japan , that same voyag when thou went mate with captain ahab , did ' st thou not think of death and the judgment then ? '' `` hear him , hear him now , '' cri peleg , march across the cabin , and thrust hi hand far down into hi pocket , -- '' hear him , all of ye . think of that ! when everi moment we thought the ship would sink ! death and the judgment then ? what ? with all three mast make such an everlast thunder against the side ; and everi sea break over us , fore and aft . think of death and the judgment then ? No ! no time to think about death then . life wa what captain ahab and I wa think of ; and how to save all hand -- how to rig juri - mast -- how to get into the nearest port ; that wa what I wa think of . '' bildad said no more , but button up hi coat , stalk on deck , where we follow him . there he stood , veri quietli overlook some sailmak who were mend a top - sail in the waist . now and then he stoop to pick up a patch , or save an end of tar twine , which otherwis might have been wast . chapter 19 the prophet . `` shipmat , have ye ship in that ship ? '' queequeg and I had just left the pequod , and were saunter away from the water , for the moment each occupi with hi own thought , when the abov word were put to us by a stranger , who , paus befor us , level hi massiv forefing at the vessel in question . He wa but shabbili apparel in fade jacket and patch trowser ; a rag of a black handkerchief invest hi neck . A confluent small - pox had in all direct flow over hi face , and left it like the complic rib bed of a torrent , when the rush water have been dri up . `` have ye ship in her ? '' he repeat . `` you mean the ship pequod , I suppos , '' said I , tri to gain a littl more time for an uninterrupt look at him . `` aye , the pequod -- that ship there , '' he said , draw back hi whole arm , and then rapidli shove it straight out from him , with the fix bayonet of hi point finger dart full at the object . `` ye , '' said I , `` we have just sign the articl . '' `` anyth down there about your soul ? '' `` about what ? '' `` Oh , perhap you hav ' n ' t got ani , '' he said quickli . `` No matter though , I know mani chap that hav ' n ' t got ani , -- good luck to ' em ; and they are all the better off for it . A soul ' s a sort of a fifth wheel to a wagon . '' `` what are you jabber about , shipmat ? '' said I . `` HE ' S got enough , though , to make up for all defici of that sort in other chap , '' abruptli said the stranger , place a nervou emphasi upon the word HE . `` queequeg , '' said I , `` let ' s go ; thi fellow ha broken loos from somewher ; he ' s talk about someth and somebodi we don ' t know . '' `` stop ! '' cri the stranger . `` Ye said true -- ye hav ' n ' t seen old thunder yet , have ye ? '' `` who ' s old thunder ? '' said I , again rivet with the insan earnest of hi manner . `` captain ahab . '' `` what ! the captain of our ship , the pequod ? '' `` aye , among some of us old sailor chap , he goe by that name . Ye hav ' n ' t seen him yet , have ye ? '' `` No , we hav ' n ' t . He ' s sick they say , but is get better , and will be all right again befor long . '' `` all right again befor long ! '' laugh the stranger , with a solemnli deris sort of laugh . `` look ye ; when captain ahab is all right , then thi left arm of mine will be all right ; not befor . '' `` what do you know about him ? '' `` what did they tell you about him ? say that ! '' `` they didn ' t tell much of anyth about him ; onli I ' ve heard that he ' s a good whale - hunter , and a good captain to hi crew . '' `` that ' s true , that ' s true -- ye , both true enough . but you must jump when he give an order . step and growl ; growl and go -- that ' s the word with captain ahab . but noth about that thing that happen to him off cape horn , long ago , when he lay like dead for three day and night ; noth about that deadli skrimmag with the spaniard afor the altar in santa ? -- heard noth about that , eh ? noth about the silver calabash he spat into ? and noth about hi lose hi leg last voyag , accord to the propheci . didn ' t ye hear a word about them matter and someth more , eh ? No , I don ' t think ye did ; how could ye ? who know it ? not all nantucket , I guess . but how ' ever , mayhap , ye ' ve heard tell about the leg , and how he lost it ; aye , ye have heard of that , I dare say . Oh ye , that everi one know a ' most -- I mean they know he ' s onli one leg ; and that a parmacetti took the other off . '' `` My friend , '' said I , `` what all thi gibberish of your is about , I don ' t know , and I don ' t much care ; for it seem to me that you must be a littl damag in the head . but if you are speak of captain ahab , of that ship there , the pequod , then let me tell you , that I know all about the loss of hi leg . '' `` all about it , eh -- sure you do ? -- all ? '' `` pretti sure . '' with finger point and eye level at the pequod , the beggar - like stranger stood a moment , as if in a troubl reveri ; then start a littl , turn and said : -- '' Ye ' ve ship , have ye ? name down on the paper ? well , well , what ' s sign , is sign ; and what ' s to be , will be ; and then again , perhap it won ' t be , after all . anyhow , it ' s all fix and arrang a ' readi ; and some sailor or other must go with him , I suppos ; as well these as ani other men , god piti ' em ! morn to ye , shipmat , morn ; the ineff heaven bless ye ; I ' m sorri I stop ye . '' `` look here , friend , '' said I , `` if you have anyth import to tell us , out with it ; but if you are onli tri to bamboozl us , you are mistaken in your game ; that ' s all I have to say . '' `` and it ' s said veri well , and I like to hear a chap talk up that way ; you are just the man for him -- the like of ye . morn to ye , shipmat , morn ! Oh ! when ye get there , tell ' em I ' ve conclud not to make one of ' em . '' `` Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him . '' `` morn to ye , shipmat , morn . '' `` morn it is , '' said I . `` come along , queequeg , let ' s leav thi crazi man . but stop , tell me your name , will you ? '' `` elijah . '' elijah ! thought I , and we walk away , both comment , after each other ' s fashion , upon thi rag old sailor ; and agre that he wa noth but a humbug , tri to be a bugbear . but we had not gone perhap abov a hundr yard , when chanc to turn a corner , and look back as I did so , who should be seen but elijah follow us , though at a distanc . somehow , the sight of him struck me so , that I said noth to queequeg of hi be behind , but pass on with my comrad , anxiou to see whether the stranger would turn the same corner that we did . He did ; and then it seem to me that he wa dog us , but with what intent I could not for the life of me imagin . thi circumst , coupl with hi ambigu , half - hint , half - reveal , shroud sort of talk , now begat in me all kind of vagu wonder and half - apprehens , and all connect with the pequod ; and captain ahab ; and the leg he had lost ; and the cape horn fit ; and the silver calabash ; and what captain peleg had said of him , when I left the ship the day previou ; and the predict of the squaw tistig ; and the voyag we had bound ourselv to sail ; and a hundr other shadowi thing . I wa resolv to satisfi myself whether thi rag elijah wa realli dog us or not , and with that intent cross the way with queequeg , and on that side of it retrac our step . but elijah pass on , without seem to notic us . thi reliev me ; and onc more , and final as it seem to me , I pronounc him in my heart , a humbug . chapter 20 all astir . A day or two pass , and there wa great activ aboard the pequod . not onli were the old sail be mend , but new sail were come on board , and bolt of canva , and coil of rig ; in short , everyth betoken that the ship ' s prepar were hurri to a close . captain peleg seldom or never went ashor , but sat in hi wigwam keep a sharp look - out upon the hand : bildad did all the purchas and provid at the store ; and the men employ in the hold and on the rig were work till long after night - fall . On the day follow queequeg ' s sign the articl , word wa given at all the inn where the ship ' s compani were stop , that their chest must be on board befor night , for there wa no tell how soon the vessel might be sail . So queequeg and I got down our trap , resolv , howev , to sleep ashor till the last . but it seem they alway give veri long notic in these case , and the ship did not sail for sever day . but no wonder ; there wa a good deal to be done , and there is no tell how mani thing to be thought of , befor the pequod wa fulli equip . everi one know what a multitud of thing -- bed , sauc - pan , knive and fork , shovel and tong , napkin , nut - cracker , and what not , are indispens to the busi of housekeep . just so with whale , which necessit a three - year ' housekeep upon the wide ocean , far from all grocer , costermong , doctor , baker , and banker . and though thi also hold true of merchant vessel , yet not by ani mean to the same extent as with whalemen . for besid the great length of the whale voyag , the numer articl peculiar to the prosecut of the fisheri , and the imposs of replac them at the remot harbor usual frequent , it must be rememb , that of all ship , whale vessel are the most expos to accid of all kind , and especi to the destruct and loss of the veri thing upon which the success of the voyag most depend . henc , the spare boat , spare spar , and spare line and harpoon , and spare everyth , almost , but a spare captain and duplic ship . At the period of our arriv at the island , the heaviest storag of the pequod had been almost complet ; compris her beef , bread , water , fuel , and iron hoop and stave . but , as befor hint , for some time there wa a continu fetch and carri on board of diver odd and end of thing , both larg and small . chief among those who did thi fetch and carri wa captain bildad ' s sister , a lean old ladi of a most determin and indefatig spirit , but withal veri kindheart , who seem resolv that , if she could help it , noth should be found want in the pequod , after onc fairli get to sea . At one time she would come on board with a jar of pickl for the steward ' s pantri ; anoth time with a bunch of quill for the chief mate ' s desk , where he kept hi log ; a third time with a roll of flannel for the small of some one ' s rheumat back . never did ani woman better deserv her name , which wa chariti -- aunt chariti , as everybodi call her . and like a sister of chariti did thi charit aunt chariti bustl about hither and thither , readi to turn her hand and heart to anyth that promis to yield safeti , comfort , and consol to all on board a ship in which her belov brother bildad wa concern , and in which she herself own a score or two of well - save dollar . but it wa startl to see thi excel heart quakeress come on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladl in one hand , and a still longer whale lanc in the other . nor wa bildad himself nor captain peleg at all backward . As for bildad , he carri about with him a long list of the articl need , and at everi fresh arriv , down went hi mark opposit that articl upon the paper . everi onc in a while peleg came hobbl out of hi whalebon den , roar at the men down the hatchway , roar up to the rigger at the mast - head , and then conclud by roar back into hi wigwam . dure these day of prepar , queequeg and I often visit the craft , and as often I ask about captain ahab , and how he wa , and when he wa go to come on board hi ship . To these question they would answer , that he wa get better and better , and wa expect aboard everi day ; meantim , the two captain , peleg and bildad , could attend to everyth necessari to fit the vessel for the voyag . If I had been downright honest with myself , I would have seen veri plainli in my heart that I did but half fanci be commit thi way to so long a voyag , without onc lay my eye on the man who wa to be the absolut dictat of it , so soon as the ship sail out upon the open sea . but when a man suspect ani wrong , it sometim happen that if he be alreadi involv in the matter , he insens strive to cover up hi suspicion even from himself . and much thi way it wa with me . I said noth , and tri to think noth . At last it wa given out that some time next day the ship would certainli sail . So next morn , queequeg and I took a veri earli start . chapter 21 go aboard . It wa nearli six o ' clock , but onli grey imperfect misti dawn , when we drew nigh the wharf . `` there are some sailor run ahead there , if I see right , '' said I to queequeg , `` it can ' t be shadow ; she ' s off by sunris , I guess ; come on ! '' `` avast ! '' cri a voic , whose owner at the same time come close behind us , laid a hand upon both our shoulder , and then insinu himself between us , stood stoop forward a littl , in the uncertain twilight , strang peer from queequeg to me . It wa elijah . `` go aboard ? '' `` hand off , will you , '' said I . `` looke here , '' said queequeg , shake himself , `` go ' way ! '' `` ain ' t go aboard , then ? '' `` ye , we are , '' said I , `` but what busi is that of your ? Do you know , Mr . elijah , that I consid you a littl impertin ? '' `` No , no , no ; I wasn ' t awar of that , '' said elijah , slowli and wonderingli look from me to queequeg , with the most unaccount glanc . `` elijah , '' said I , `` you will oblig my friend and me by withdraw . We are go to the indian and pacif ocean , and would prefer not to be detain . '' `` Ye be , be ye ? come back afor breakfast ? '' `` He ' s crack , queequeg , '' said I , `` come on . '' `` holloa ! '' cri stationari elijah , hail us when we had remov a few pace . `` never mind him , '' said I , `` queequeg , come on . '' but he stole up to us again , and suddenli clap hi hand on my shoulder , said -- '' did ye see anyth look like men go toward that ship a while ago ? '' struck by thi plain matter - of - fact question , I answer , say , `` ye , I thought I did see four or five men ; but it wa too dim to be sure . '' `` veri dim , veri dim , '' said elijah . `` morn to ye . '' onc more we quit him ; but onc more he came softli after us ; and touch my shoulder again , said , `` see if you can find ' em now , will ye ? `` find who ? '' `` morn to ye ! morn to ye ! '' he rejoin , again move off . `` Oh ! I wa go to warn ye against -- but never mind , never mind -- it ' s all one , all in the famili too ; -- sharp frost thi morn , ain ' t it ? good - bye to ye . shan ' t see ye again veri soon , I guess ; unless it ' s befor the grand juri . '' and with these crack word he final depart , leav me , for the moment , in no small wonder at hi frantic impud . At last , step on board the pequod , we found everyth in profound quiet , not a soul move . the cabin entranc wa lock within ; the hatch were all on , and lumber with coil of rig . go forward to the forecastl , we found the slide of the scuttl open . see a light , we went down , and found onli an old rigger there , wrap in a tatter pea - jacket . He wa thrown at whole length upon two chest , hi face downward and inclos in hi fold arm . the profoundest slumber slept upon him . `` those sailor we saw , queequeg , where can they have gone to ? '' said I , look dubious at the sleeper . but it seem that , when on the wharf , queequeg had not at all notic what I now allud to ; henc I would have thought myself to have been optic deceiv in that matter , were it not for elijah ' s otherwis inexplic question . but I beat the thing down ; and again mark the sleeper , jocularli hint to queequeg that perhap we had best sit up with the bodi ; tell him to establish himself accordingli . He put hi hand upon the sleeper ' s rear , as though feel if it wa soft enough ; and then , without more ado , sat quietli down there . `` graciou ! queequeg , don ' t sit there , '' said I . `` Oh ! perri dood seat , '' said queequeg , `` my countri way ; won ' t hurt him face . '' `` face ! '' said I , `` call that hi face ? veri benevol counten then ; but how hard he breath , he ' s heav himself ; get off , queequeg , you are heavi , it ' s grind the face of the poor . get off , queequeg ! look , he ' ll twitch you off soon . I wonder he don ' t wake . '' queequeg remov himself to just beyond the head of the sleeper , and light hi tomahawk pipe . I sat at the feet . We kept the pipe pass over the sleeper , from one to the other . meanwhil , upon question him in hi broken fashion , queequeg gave me to understand that , in hi land , owe to the absenc of sette and sofa of all sort , the king , chief , and great peopl gener , were in the custom of fatten some of the lower order for ottoman ; and to furnish a hous comfort in that respect , you had onli to buy up eight or ten lazi fellow , and lay them round in the pier and alcov . besid , it wa veri conveni on an excurs ; much better than those garden - chair which are convert into walk - stick ; upon occas , a chief call hi attend , and desir him to make a sette of himself under a spread tree , perhap in some damp marshi place . while narrat these thing , everi time queequeg receiv the tomahawk from me , he flourish the hatchet - side of it over the sleeper ' s head . `` what ' s that for , queequeg ? '' `` perri easi , kill - e ; oh ! perri easi ! He wa go on with some wild reminisc about hi tomahawk - pipe , which , it seem , had in it two use both brain hi foe and sooth hi soul , when we were directli attract to the sleep rigger . the strong vapour now complet fill the contract hole , it began to tell upon him . He breath with a sort of muffled ; then seem troubl in the nose ; then revolv over onc or twice ; then sat up and rub hi eye . `` holloa ! '' he breath at last , `` who be ye smoker ? '' `` ship men , '' answer I , `` when doe she sail ? '' `` aye , aye , ye are go in her , be ye ? she sail to - day . the captain came aboard last night . '' `` what captain ? -- ahab ? '' `` who but him inde ? '' I wa go to ask him some further question concern ahab , when we heard a nois on deck . `` holloa ! starbuck ' s astir , '' said the rigger . `` He ' s a live chief mate , that ; good man , and a piou ; but all aliv now , I must turn to . '' and so say he went on deck , and we follow . It wa now clear sunris . soon the crew came on board in two and three ; the rigger bestir themselv ; the mate were activ engag ; and sever of the shore peopl were busi in bring variou last thing on board . meanwhil captain ahab remain invis enshrin within hi cabin . chapter 22 merri christma . At length , toward noon , upon the final dismiss of the ship ' s rigger , and after the pequod had been haul out from the wharf , and after the ever - thought chariti had come off in a whale - boat , with her last gift -- a night - cap for stubb , the second mate , her brother - in - law , and a spare bibl for the steward -- after all thi , the two captain , peleg and bildad , issu from the cabin , and turn to the chief mate , peleg said : `` now , Mr . starbuck , are you sure everyth is right ? captain ahab is all readi -- just spoke to him -- noth more to be got from shore , eh ? well , call all hand , then . muster ' em aft here -- blast ' em ! '' `` No need of profan word , howev great the hurri , peleg , '' said bildad , `` but away with thee , friend starbuck , and do our bid . '' how now ! here upon the veri point of start for the voyag , captain peleg and captain bildad were go it with a high hand on the quarter - deck , just as if they were to be joint - command at sea , as well as to all appear in port . and , as for captain ahab , no sign of him wa yet to be seen ; onli , they said he wa in the cabin . but then , the idea wa , that hi presenc wa by no mean necessari in get the ship under weigh , and steer her well out to sea . inde , as that wa not at all hi proper busi , but the pilot ' s ; and as he wa not yet complet recov -- so they said -- therefor , captain ahab stay below . and all thi seem natur enough ; especi as in the merchant servic mani captain never show themselv on deck for a consider time after heav up the anchor , but remain over the cabin tabl , have a farewel merri - make with their shore friend , befor they quit the ship for good with the pilot . but there wa not much chanc to think over the matter , for captain peleg wa now all aliv . He seem to do most of the talk and command , and not bildad . `` aft here , ye son of bachelor , '' he cri , as the sailor linger at the main - mast . `` Mr . starbuck , drive ' em aft . '' `` strike the tent there ! '' -- wa the next order . As I hint befor , thi whalebon marque wa never pitch except in port ; and on board the pequod , for thirti year , the order to strike the tent wa well known to be the next thing to heav up the anchor . `` man the capstan ! blood and thunder ! -- jump ! '' -- wa the next command , and the crew sprang for the handspik . now in get under weigh , the station gener occupi by the pilot is the forward part of the ship . and here bildad , who , with peleg , be it known , in addit to hi other offic , wa one of the licens pilot of the port -- he be suspect to have got himself made a pilot in order to save the nantucket pilot - fee to all the ship he wa concern in , for he never pilot ani other craft -- bildad , I say , might now be seen activ engag in look over the bow for the approach anchor , and at interv sing what seem a dismal stave of psalmodi , to cheer the hand at the windlass , who roar forth some sort of a choru about the girl in boobl alley , with hearti good will . nevertheless , not three day previou , bildad had told them that no profan song would be allow on board the pequod , particularli in get under weigh ; and chariti , hi sister , had place a small choic copi of watt in each seaman ' s berth . meantim , overse the other part of the ship , captain peleg rip and swore astern in the most fright manner . I almost thought he would sink the ship befor the anchor could be got up ; involuntarili I paus on my handspik , and told queequeg to do the same , think of the peril we both ran , in start on the voyag with such a devil for a pilot . I wa comfort myself , howev , with the thought that in piou bildad might be found some salvat , spite of hi seven hundr and seventi - seventh lay ; when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear , and turn round , wa horrifi at the apparit of captain peleg in the act of withdraw hi leg from my immedi vicin . that wa my first kick . `` Is that the way they heav in the marchant servic ? '' he roar . `` spring , thou sheep - head ; spring , and break thi backbon ! whi don ' t ye spring , I say , all of ye -- spring ! quohog ! spring , thou chap with the red whisker ; spring there , scotch - cap ; spring , thou green pant . spring , I say , all of ye , and spring your eye out ! '' and so say , he move along the windlass , here and there use hi leg veri freeli , while imperturb bildad kept lead off with hi psalmodi . think I , captain peleg must have been drink someth to - day . At last the anchor wa up , the sail were set , and off we glide . It wa a short , cold christma ; and as the short northern day merg into night , we found ourselv almost broad upon the wintri ocean , whose freez spray case us in ice , as in polish armor . the long row of teeth on the bulwark glisten in the moonlight ; and like the white ivori tusk of some huge eleph , vast curv icicl depend from the bow . lank bildad , as pilot , head the first watch , and ever and anon , as the old craft deep dive into the green sea , and sent the shiver frost all over her , and the wind howl , and the cordag rang , hi steadi note were heard , -- `` sweet field beyond the swell flood , stand dress in live green . So to the jew old canaan stood , while jordan roll between . '' never did those sweet word sound more sweetli to me than then . they were full of hope and fruition . spite of thi frigid winter night in the boister atlant , spite of my wet feet and wetter jacket , there wa yet , it then seem to me , mani a pleasant haven in store ; and mead and glade so etern vernal , that the grass shot up by the spring , untrodden , unwilt , remain at midsumm . At last we gain such an of , that the two pilot were need no longer . the stout sail - boat that had accompani us began rang alongsid . It wa curiou and not unpleas , how peleg and bildad were affect at thi junctur , especi captain bildad . for loath to depart , yet ; veri loath to leav , for good , a ship bound on so long and peril a voyag -- beyond both stormi cape ; a ship in which some thousand of hi hard earn dollar were invest ; a ship , in which an old shipmat sail as captain ; a man almost as old as he , onc more start to encount all the terror of the pitiless jaw ; loath to say good - bye to a thing so everi way brim of everi interest to him , -- poor old bildad linger long ; pace the deck with anxiou stride ; ran down into the cabin to speak anoth farewel word there ; again came on deck , and look to windward ; look toward the wide and endless water , onli bound by the far - off unseen eastern contin ; look toward the land ; look aloft ; look right and left ; look everywher and nowher ; and at last , mechan coil a rope upon it pin , convuls grasp stout peleg by the hand , and hold up a lantern , for a moment stood gaze heroic in hi face , as much as to say , `` nevertheless , friend peleg , I can stand it ; ye , I can . '' As for peleg himself , he took it more like a philosoph ; but for all hi philosophi , there wa a tear twinkl in hi eye , when the lantern came too near . and he , too , did not a littl run from cabin to deck -- now a word below , and now a word with starbuck , the chief mate . but , at last , he turn to hi comrad , with a final sort of look about him , -- '' captain bildad -- come , old shipmat , we must go . back the main - yard there ! boat ahoy ! stand by to come close alongsid , now ! care , care ! -- come , bildad , boy -- say your last . luck to ye , starbuck -- luck to ye , Mr . stubb -- luck to ye , Mr . flask -- good - bye and good luck to ye all -- and thi day three year I ' ll have a hot supper smoke for ye in old nantucket . hurrah and away ! '' `` god bless ye , and have ye in hi holi keep , men , '' murmur old bildad , almost incoher . `` I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that captain ahab may soon be move among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he need , and ye ' ll have plenti of them in the tropic voyag ye go . Be care in the hunt , ye mate . don ' t stave the boat needlessli , ye harpoon ; good white cedar plank is rais full three per cent . within the year . don ' t forget your prayer , either . Mr . starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t wast the spare stave . Oh ! the sail - needl are in the green locker ! don ' t whale it too much a ' lord ' s day , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chanc either , that ' s reject heaven ' s good gift . have an eye to the molass tierc , Mr . stubb ; it wa a littl leaki , I thought . If ye touch at the island , Mr . flask , bewar of fornic . good - bye , good - bye ! don ' t keep that chees too long down in the hold , Mr . starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be care with the butter -- twenti cent the pound it wa , and mind ye , if -- '' `` come , come , captain bildad ; stop palav , -- away ! '' and with that , peleg hurri him over the side , and both dropt into the boat . ship and boat diverg ; the cold , damp night breez blew between ; a scream gull flew overhead ; the two hull wildli roll ; we gave three heavi - heart cheer , and blindli plung like fate into the lone atlant . chapter 23 the lee shore . some chapter back , one bulkington wa spoken of , a tall , newland marin , encount in new bedford at the inn . when on that shiver winter ' s night , the pequod thrust her vindict bow into the cold malici wave , who should I see stand at her helm but bulkington ! I look with sympathet awe and fear upon the man , who in mid - winter just land from a four year ' danger voyag , could so unrestingli push off again for still anoth tempestu term . the land seem scorch to hi feet . wonderfullest thing are ever the unmention ; deep memori yield no epitaph ; thi six - inch chapter is the stoneless grave of bulkington . let me onli say that it fare with him as with the storm - toss ship , that miser drive along the leeward land . the port would fain give succor ; the port is piti ; in the port is safeti , comfort , hearthston , supper , warm blanket , friend , all that ' s kind to our mortal . but in that gale , the port , the land , is that ship ' s direst jeopardi ; she must fli all hospit ; one touch of land , though it but graze the keel , would make her shudder through and through . with all her might she crowd all sail off shore ; in so do , fight ' gainst the veri wind that fain would blow her homeward ; seek all the lash sea ' s landless again ; for refug ' s sake forlornli rush into peril ; her onli friend her bitterest foe ! know ye now , bulkington ? glimps do ye seem to see of that mortal intoler truth ; that all deep , earnest think is but the intrepid effort of the soul to keep the open independ of her sea ; while the wildest wind of heaven and earth conspir to cast her on the treacher , slavish shore ? but as in landless alon resid highest truth , shoreless , indefinit as god -- so , better is it to perish in that howl infinit , than be inglori dash upon the lee , even if that were safeti ! for worm - like , then , oh ! who would craven crawl to land ! terror of the terribl ! is all thi agoni so vain ? take heart , take heart , O bulkington ! bear thee grimli , demigod ! Up from the spray of thi ocean - perish -- straight up , leap thi apotheosi ! chapter 24 the advoc . As queequeg and I are now fairli embark in thi busi of whale ; and as thi busi of whale ha somehow come to be regard among landsmen as a rather unpoet and disreput pursuit ; therefor , I am all anxieti to convinc ye , ye landsmen , of the injustic herebi done to us hunter of whale . In the first place , it may be deem almost superflu to establish the fact , that among peopl at larg , the busi of whale is not account on a level with what are call the liber profess . If a stranger were introduc into ani miscellan metropolitan societi , it would but slightli advanc the gener opinion of hi merit , were he present to the compani as a harpoon , say ; and if in emul of the naval offic he should append the initi S . W . F . ( sperm whale fisheri ) to hi visit card , such a procedur would be deem pre - emin presum and ridicul . doubtless one lead reason whi the world declin honour us whalemen , is thi : they think that , at best , our vocat amount to a butcher sort of busi ; and that when activ engag therein , we are surround by all manner of defil . butcher we are , that is true . but butcher , also , and butcher of the bloodiest badg have been all martial command whom the world invari delight to honour . and as for the matter of the alleg uncleanli of our busi , ye shall soon be initi into certain fact hitherto pretti gener unknown , and which , upon the whole , will triumphantli plant the sperm whale - ship at least among the cleanliest thing of thi tidi earth . but even grant the charg in question to be true ; what disord slipperi deck of a whale - ship are compar to the unspeak carrion of those battl - field from which so mani soldier return to drink in all ladi ' plaudit ? and if the idea of peril so much enhanc the popular conceit of the soldier ' s profess ; let me assur ye that mani a veteran who ha freeli march up to a batteri , would quickli recoil at the apparit of the sperm whale ' s vast tail , fan into eddi the air over hi head . for what are the comprehens terror of man compar with the interlink terror and wonder of god ! but , though the world scout at us whale hunter , yet doe it unwittingli pay us the profoundest homag ; yea , an all - abound ador ! for almost all the taper , lamp , and candl that burn round the globe , burn , as befor so mani shrine , to our glori ! but look at thi matter in other light ; weigh it in all sort of scale ; see what we whalemen are , and have been . whi did the dutch in De witt ' s time have admir of their whale fleet ? whi did loui xvi . of franc , at hi own person expens , fit out whale ship from dunkirk , and polit invit to that town some score or two of famili from our own island of nantucket ? whi did britain between the year 1750 and 1788 pay to her whalemen in bounti upward of L1 , 000 , 000 ? and lastli , how come it that we whalemen of america now outnumb all the rest of the band whalemen in the world ; sail a navi of upward of seven hundr vessel ; man by eighteen thousand men ; yearli consum 4 , 000 , 000 of dollar ; the ship worth , at the time of sail , $ 20 , 000 , 000 ! and everi year import into our harbor a well reap harvest of $ 7 , 000 , 000 . how come all thi , if there be not someth puissant in whale ? but thi is not the half ; look again . I freeli assert , that the cosmopolit philosoph can not , for hi life , point out one singl peac influenc , which within the last sixti year ha oper more potenti upon the whole broad world , taken in one aggreg , than the high and mighti busi of whale . one way and anoth , it ha begotten event so remark in themselv , and so continu moment in their sequenti issu , that whale may well be regard as that egyptian mother , who bore offspr themselv pregnant from her womb . It would be a hopeless , endless task to catalogu all these thing . let a hand suffic . for mani year past the whale - ship ha been the pioneer in ferret out the remotest and least known part of the earth . she ha explor sea and archipelago which had no chart , where no cook or vancouv had ever sail . If american and european men - of - war now peac ride in onc savag harbor , let them fire salut to the honour and glori of the whale - ship , which origin show them the way , and first interpret between them and the savag . they may celebr as they will the hero of explor expedit , your cook , your krusenstern ; but I say that score of anonym captain have sail out of nantucket , that were as great , and greater than your cook and your krusenstern . for in their succourless empti - handed , they , in the heathenish shark water , and by the beach of unrecord , javelin island , battl with virgin wonder and terror that cook with all hi marin and musket would not willingli have dare . all that is made such a flourish of in the old south sea voyag , those thing were but the life - time commonplac of our heroic nantucket . often , adventur which vancouv dedic three chapter to , these men account unworthi of be set down in the ship ' s common log . Ah , the world ! Oh , the world ! until the whale fisheri round cape horn , no commerc but coloni , scarc ani intercours but coloni , wa carri on between europ and the long line of the opul spanish provinc on the pacif coast . It wa the whaleman who first broke through the jealou polici of the spanish crown , touch those coloni ; and , if space permit , it might be distinctli shown how from those whalemen at last eventu the liber of peru , chili , and bolivia from the yoke of old spain , and the establish of the etern democraci in those part . that great america on the other side of the sphere , australia , wa given to the enlighten world by the whaleman . after it first blunder - born discoveri by a dutchman , all other ship long shun those shore as pestifer barbar ; but the whale - ship touch there . the whale - ship is the true mother of that now mighti coloni . moreov , in the infanc of the first australian settlement , the emigr were sever time save from starvat by the benevol biscuit of the whale - ship luckili drop an anchor in their water . the uncount isl of all polynesia confess the same truth , and do commerci homag to the whale - ship , that clear the way for the missionari and the merchant , and in mani case carri the primit missionari to their first destin . If that doubl - bolt land , japan , is ever to becom hospit , it is the whale - ship alon to whom the credit will be due ; for alreadi she is on the threshold . but if , in the face of all thi , you still declar that whale ha no aesthet nobl associ connect with it , then am I readi to shiver fifti lanc with you there , and unhors you with a split helmet everi time . the whale ha no famou author , and whale no famou chronicl , you will say . the whale NO famou author , and whale NO famou chronicl ? who wrote the first account of our leviathan ? who but mighti job ! and who compos the first narr of a whale - voyag ? who , but no less a princ than alfr the great , who , with hi own royal pen , took down the word from other , the norwegian whale - hunter of those time ! and who pronounc our glow eulog in parliament ? who , but edmund burk ! true enough , but then whalemen themselv are poor devil ; they have no good blood in their vein . NO good blood IN their vein ? they have someth better than royal blood there . the grandmoth of benjamin franklin wa mari morrel ; afterward , by marriag , mari folger , one of the old settler of nantucket , and the ancestress to a long line of folger and harpoon -- all kith and kin to nobl benjamin -- thi day dart the barb iron from one side of the world to the other . good again ; but then all confess that somehow whale is not respect . whale not respect ? whale is imperi ! By old english statutori law , the whale is declar `` a royal fish . `` * Oh , that ' s onli nomin ! the whale himself ha never figur in ani grand impos way . the whale never figur IN ani grand impos way ? In one of the mighti triumph given to a roman gener upon hi enter the world ' s capit , the bone of a whale , brought all the way from the syrian coast , were the most conspicu object in the cymbal process . * * see subsequ chapter for someth more on thi head . grant it , sinc you cite it ; but , say what you will , there is no real digniti in whale . NO digniti IN whale ? the digniti of our call the veri heaven attest . cetu is a constel in the south ! No more ! drive down your hat in presenc of the czar , and take it off to queequeg ! No more ! I know a man that , in hi lifetim , ha taken three hundr and fifti whale . I account that man more honour than that great captain of antiqu who boast of take as mani wall town . and , as for me , if , by ani possibl , there be ani as yet undiscov prime thing in me ; if I shall ever deserv ani real reput in that small but high hush world which I might not be unreason ambiti of ; if hereaft I shall do anyth that , upon the whole , a man might rather have done than to have left undon ; if , at my death , my executor , or more properli my creditor , find ani preciou mss . in my desk , then here I prospect ascrib all the honour and the glori to whale ; for a whale - ship wa my yale colleg and my harvard . chapter 25 postscript . In behalf of the digniti of whale , I would fain advanc naught but substanti fact . but after embattl hi fact , an advoc who should wholli suppress a not unreason surmis , which might tell eloqu upon hi caus -- such an advoc , would he not be blameworthi ? It is well known that at the coron of king and queen , even modern one , a certain curiou process of season them for their function is gone through . there is a saltcellar of state , so call , and there may be a castor of state . how they use the salt , precis -- who know ? certain I am , howev , that a king ' s head is solemnli oil at hi coron , even as a head of salad . can it be , though , that they anoint it with a view of make it interior run well , as they anoint machineri ? much might be rumin here , concern the essenti digniti of thi regal process , becaus in common life we esteem but meanli and contempt a fellow who anoint hi hair , and palpabl smell of that anoint . In truth , a matur man who use hair - oil , unless medicin , that man ha probabl got a quoggi spot in him somewher . As a gener rule , he can ' t amount to much in hi total . but the onli thing to be consid here , is thi -- what kind of oil is use at coron ? certainli it can not be oliv oil , nor macassar oil , nor castor oil , nor bear ' s oil , nor train oil , nor cod - liver oil . what then can it possibl be , but sperm oil in it unmanufactur , unpollut state , the sweetest of all oil ? think of that , ye loyal briton ! we whalemen suppli your king and queen with coron stuff ! chapter 26 knight and squir . the chief mate of the pequod wa starbuck , a nativ of nantucket , and a quaker by descent . He wa a long , earnest man , and though born on an ici coast , seem well adapt to endur hot latitud , hi flesh be hard as twice - bake biscuit . transport to the indi , hi live blood would not spoil like bottl ale . He must have been born in some time of gener drought and famin , or upon one of those fast day for which hi state is famou . onli some thirti arid summer had he seen ; those summer had dri up all hi physic superflu . but thi , hi thin , so to speak , seem no more the token of wast anxieti and care , than it seem the indic of ani bodili blight . It wa mere the condens of the man . He wa by no mean ill - look ; quit the contrari . hi pure tight skin wa an excel fit ; and close wrap up in it , and embalm with inner health and strength , like a revivifi egyptian , thi starbuck seem prepar to endur for long age to come , and to endur alway , as now ; for be it polar snow or torrid sun , like a patent chronomet , hi interior vital wa warrant to do well in all climat . look into hi eye , you seem to see there the yet linger imag of those thousand - fold peril he had calmli confront through life . A staid , steadfast man , whose life for the most part wa a tell pantomim of action , and not a tame chapter of sound . yet , for all hi hardi sobrieti and fortitud , there were certain qualiti in him which at time affect , and in some case seem well nigh to overbal all the rest . uncommonli conscienti for a seaman , and endu with a deep natur rever , the wild wateri loneli of hi life did therefor strongli inclin him to superstit ; but to that sort of superstit , which in some organ seem rather to spring , somehow , from intellig than from ignor . outward portent and inward presenti were hi . and if at time these thing bent the weld iron of hi soul , much more did hi far - away domest memori of hi young cape wife and child , tend to bend him still more from the origin rugged of hi natur , and open him still further to those latent influenc which , in some honest - heart men , restrain the gush of dare - devil dare , so often evinc by other in the more peril vicissitud of the fisheri . `` I will have no man in my boat , '' said starbuck , `` who is not afraid of a whale . '' By thi , he seem to mean , not onli that the most reliabl and use courag wa that which aris from the fair estim of the encount peril , but that an utterli fearless man is a far more danger comrad than a coward . `` aye , aye , '' said stubb , the second mate , `` starbuck , there , is as care a man as you ' ll find anywher in thi fisheri . '' but we shall ere long see what that word `` care `` precis mean when use by a man like stubb , or almost ani other whale hunter . starbuck wa no crusad after peril ; in him courag wa not a sentiment ; but a thing simpli use to him , and alway at hand upon all mortal practic occas . besid , he thought , perhap , that in thi busi of whale , courag wa one of the great stapl outfit of the ship , like her beef and her bread , and not to be foolishli wast . wherefor he had no fanci for lower for whale after sun - down ; nor for persist in fight a fish that too much persist in fight him . for , thought starbuck , I am here in thi critic ocean to kill whale for my live , and not to be kill by them for their ; and that hundr of men had been so kill starbuck well knew . what doom wa hi own father ' s ? where , in the bottomless deep , could he find the torn limb of hi brother ? with memori like these in him , and , moreov , given to a certain superstiti , as ha been said ; the courag of thi starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must inde have been extrem . but it wa not in reason natur that a man so organ , and with such terribl experi and remembr as he had ; it wa not in natur that these thing should fail in latent engend an element in him , which , under suitabl circumst , would break out from it confin , and burn all hi courag up . and brave as he might be , it wa that sort of braveri chiefli , visibl in some intrepid men , which , while gener abid firm in the conflict with sea , or wind , or whale , or ani of the ordinari irrat horror of the world , yet can not withstand those more terrif , becaus more spiritu terror , which sometim menac you from the concentr brow of an enrag and mighti man . but were the come narr to reveal in ani instanc , the complet abas of poor starbuck ' s fortitud , scarc might I have the heart to write it ; for it is a thing most sorrow , nay shock , to expos the fall of valour in the soul . men may seem detest as joint stock - compani and nation ; knave , fool , and murder there may be ; men may have mean and meagr face ; but man , in the ideal , is so nobl and so sparkl , such a grand and glow creatur , that over ani ignomini blemish in him all hi fellow should run to throw their costliest robe . that immacul manli we feel within ourselv , so far within us , that it remain intact though all the outer charact seem gone ; bleed with keenest anguish at the undrap spectacl of a valor - ruin man . nor can pieti itself , at such a shame sight , complet stifl her upbraid against the permit star . but thi august digniti I treat of , is not the digniti of king and robe , but that abound digniti which ha no robe investitur . thou shalt see it shine in the arm that wield a pick or drive a spike ; that democrat digniti which , on all hand , radiat without end from god ; himself ! the great god absolut ! the centr and circumfer of all democraci ! hi omnipres , our divin equal ! If , then , to meanest marin , and renegad and castaway , I shall hereaft ascrib high qualiti , though dark ; weav round them tragic grace ; if even the most mourn , perchanc the most abas , among them all , shall at time lift himself to the exalt mount ; if I shall touch that workman ' s arm with some ether light ; if I shall spread a rainbow over hi disastr set of sun ; then against all mortal critic bear me out in it , thou just spirit of equal , which hast spread one royal mantl of human over all my kind ! bear me out in it , thou great democrat god ! who didst not refus to the swart convict , bunyan , the pale , poetic pearl ; thou who didst cloth with doubli hammer leav of finest gold , the stump and pauper arm of old cervant ; thou who didst pick up andrew jackson from the pebbl ; who didst hurl him upon a war - hors ; who didst thunder him higher than a throne ! thou who , in all thi mighti , earthli march , ever cullest thi selectest champion from the kingli common ; bear me out in it , O god ! chapter 27 knight and squir . stubb wa the second mate . He wa a nativ of cape cod ; and henc , accord to local usag , wa call a cape - cod - man . A happi - go - lucki ; neither craven nor valiant ; take peril as they came with an indiffer air ; and while engag in the most immin crisi of the chase , toil away , calm and collect as a journeyman joiner engag for the year . good - humor , easi , and careless , he presid over hi whale - boat as if the most deadli encount were but a dinner , and hi crew all invit guest . He wa as particular about the comfort arrang of hi part of the boat , as an old stage - driver is about the snug of hi box . when close to the whale , in the veri death - lock of the fight , he handl hi unpiti lanc coolli and off - handedli , as a whistl tinker hi hammer . He would hum over hi old rigadig tune while flank and flank with the most exasper monster . long usag had , for thi stubb , convert the jaw of death into an easi chair . what he thought of death itself , there is no tell . whether he ever thought of it at all , might be a question ; but , if he ever did chanc to cast hi mind that way after a comfort dinner , no doubt , like a good sailor , he took it to be a sort of call of the watch to tumbl aloft , and bestir themselv there , about someth which he would find out when he obey the order , and not sooner . what , perhap , with other thing , made stubb such an easi - go , unfear man , so cheerili trudg off with the burden of life in a world full of grave pedlar , all bow to the ground with their pack ; what help to bring about that almost impiou good - humor of hi ; that thing must have been hi pipe . for , like hi nose , hi short , black littl pipe wa one of the regular featur of hi face . you would almost as soon have expect him to turn out of hi bunk without hi nose as without hi pipe . He kept a whole row of pipe there readi load , stuck in a rack , within easi reach of hi hand ; and , whenev he turn in , he smoke them all out in success , light one from the other to the end of the chapter ; then load them again to be in readi anew . for , when stubb dress , instead of first put hi leg into hi trowser , he put hi pipe into hi mouth . I say thi continu smoke must have been one caus , at least , of hi peculiar disposit ; for everi one know that thi earthli air , whether ashor or afloat , is terribl infect with the nameless miseri of the numberless mortal who have die exhal it ; and as in time of the cholera , some peopl go about with a camphor handkerchief to their mouth ; so , likewis , against all mortal tribul , stubb ' s tobacco smoke might have oper as a sort of disinfect agent . the third mate wa flask , a nativ of tisburi , in martha ' s vineyard . A short , stout , ruddi young fellow , veri pugnaci concern whale , who somehow seem to think that the great leviathan had person and hereditarili affront him ; and therefor it wa a sort of point of honour with him , to destroy them whenev encount . So utterli lost wa he to all sens of rever for the mani marvel of their majest bulk and mystic way ; and so dead to anyth like an apprehens of ani possibl danger from encount them ; that in hi poor opinion , the wondrou whale wa but a speci of magnifi mous , or at least water - rat , requir onli a littl circumvent and some small applic of time and troubl in order to kill and boil . thi ignor , unconsci fearless of hi made him a littl waggish in the matter of whale ; he follow these fish for the fun of it ; and a three year ' voyag round cape horn wa onli a jolli joke that last that length of time . As a carpent ' s nail are divid into wrought nail and cut nail ; so mankind may be similarli divid . littl flask wa one of the wrought one ; made to clinch tight and last long . they call him king - post on board of the pequod ; becaus , in form , he could be well liken to the short , squar timber known by that name in arctic whaler ; and which by the mean of mani radiat side timber insert into it , serv to brace the ship against the ici concuss of those batter sea . now these three mate -- starbuck , stubb , and flask , were moment men . they it wa who by univers prescript command three of the pequod ' s boat as headsmen . In that grand order of battl in which captain ahab would probabl marshal hi forc to descend on the whale , these three headsmen were as captain of compani . Or , be arm with their long keen whale spear , they were as a pick trio of lancer ; even as the harpoon were flinger of javelin . and sinc in thi famou fisheri , each mate or headsman , like a gothic knight of old , is alway accompani by hi boat - steerer or harpoon , who in certain conjunctur provid him with a fresh lanc , when the former one ha been badli twist , or elbow in the assault ; and moreov , as there gener subsist between the two , a close intimaci and friendli ; it is therefor but meet , that in thi place we set down who the pequod ' s harpoon were , and to what headsman each of them belong . first of all wa queequeg , whom starbuck , the chief mate , had select for hi squir . but queequeg is alreadi known . next wa tashtego , an unmix indian from gay head , the most westerli promontori of martha ' s vineyard , where there still exist the last remnant of a villag of red men , which ha long suppli the neighbor island of nantucket with mani of her most dare harpoon . In the fisheri , they usual go by the gener name of gay - header . tashtego ' s long , lean , sabl hair , hi high cheek bone , and black round eye -- for an indian , orient in their larg , but antarct in their glitter express -- all thi suffici proclaim him an inheritor of the unviti blood of those proud warrior hunter , who , in quest of the great new england moos , had scour , bow in hand , the aborigin forest of the main . but no longer snuf in the trail of the wild beast of the woodland , tashtego now hunt in the wake of the great whale of the sea ; the uner harpoon of the son fitli replac the infal arrow of the sire . To look at the tawni brawn of hi lith snaki limb , you would almost have credit the superstit of some of the earlier puritan , and half - believ thi wild indian to be a son of the princ of the power of the air . tashtego wa stubb the second mate ' s squir . third among the harpoon wa daggoo , a gigant , coal - black negro - savag , with a lion - like tread -- an ahasueru to behold . suspend from hi ear were two golden hoop , so larg that the sailor call them ring - bolt , and would talk of secur the top - sail halyard to them . In hi youth daggoo had voluntarili ship on board of a whaler , lie in a lone bay on hi nativ coast . and never have been anywher in the world but in africa , nantucket , and the pagan harbor most frequent by whalemen ; and have now led for mani year the bold life of the fisheri in the ship of owner uncommonli heed of what manner of men they ship ; daggoo retain all hi barbar virtu , and erect as a giraff , move about the deck in all the pomp of six feet five in hi sock . there wa a corpor humil in look up at him ; and a white man stand befor him seem a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . curiou to tell , thi imperi negro , ahasueru daggoo , wa the squir of littl flask , who look like a chess - man besid him . As for the residu of the pequod ' s compani , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the mani thousand men befor the mast employ in the american whale fisheri , are american born , though pretti nearli all the offic are . herein it is the same with the american whale fisheri as with the american armi and militari and merchant navi , and the engin forc employ in the construct of the american canal and railroad . the same , I say , becaus in all these case the nativ american liber provid the brain , the rest of the world as gener suppli the muscl . No small number of these whale seamen belong to the azor , where the outward bound nantucket whaler frequent touch to augment their crew from the hardi peasant of those rocki shore . In like manner , the greenland whaler sail out of hull or london , put in at the shetland island , to receiv the full complement of their crew . upon the passag homeward , they drop them there again . how it is , there is no tell , but island seem to make the best whalemen . they were nearli all island in the pequod , isolato too , I call such , not acknowledg the common contin of men , but each isolato live on a separ contin of hi own . yet now , feder along one keel , what a set these isolato were ! An anacharsi clootz deput from all the isl of the sea , and all the end of the earth , accompani old ahab in the pequod to lay the world ' s grievanc befor that bar from which not veri mani of them ever come back . black littl pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went befor . poor alabama boy ! On the grim pequod ' s forecastl , ye shall ere long see him , beat hi tambourin ; prelus of the etern time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he wa bid strike in with angel , and beat hi tambourin in glori ; call a coward here , hail a hero there ! chapter 28 ahab . for sever day after leav nantucket , noth abov hatch wa seen of captain ahab . the mate regularli reliev each other at the watch , and for aught that could be seen to the contrari , they seem to be the onli command of the ship ; onli they sometim issu from the cabin with order so sudden and peremptori , that after all it wa plain they but command vicari . ye , their suprem lord and dictat wa there , though hitherto unseen by ani eye not permit to penetr into the now sacr retreat of the cabin . everi time I ascend to the deck from my watch below , I instantli gaze aft to mark if ani strang face were visibl ; for my first vagu disquietud touch the unknown captain , now in the seclus of the sea , becam almost a perturb . thi wa strang heighten at time by the rag elijah ' s diabol incoher uninvitedli recur to me , with a subtl energi I could not have befor conceiv of . but poorli could I withstand them , much as in other mood I wa almost readi to smile at the solemn whimsic of that outlandish prophet of the wharv . but whatev it wa of apprehens or uneasi -- to call it so -- which I felt , yet whenev I came to look about me in the ship , it seem against all warrantri to cherish such emot . for though the harpoon , with the great bodi of the crew , were a far more barbar , heathenish , and motley set than ani of the tame merchant - ship compani which my previou experi had made me acquaint with , still I ascrib thi -- and rightli ascrib it -- to the fierc uniqu of the veri natur of that wild scandinavian vocat in which I had so abandonedli embark . but it wa especi the aspect of the three chief offic of the ship , the mate , which wa most forcibl calcul to allay these colourless misgiv , and induc confid and cheer in everi present of the voyag . three better , more like sea - offic and men , each in hi own differ way , could not readili be found , and they were everi one of them american ; a nantucket , a vineyard , a cape man . now , it be christma when the ship shot from out her harbor , for a space we had bite polar weather , though all the time run away from it to the southward ; and by everi degre and minut of latitud which we sail , gradual leav that merciless winter , and all it intoler weather behind us . It wa one of those less lower , but still grey and gloomi enough morn of the transit , when with a fair wind the ship wa rush through the water with a vindict sort of leap and melancholi rapid , that as I mount to the deck at the call of the forenoon watch , so soon as I level my glanc toward the taffrail , forebod shiver ran over me . realiti outran apprehens ; captain ahab stood upon hi quarter - deck . there seem no sign of common bodili ill about him , nor of the recoveri from ani . He look like a man cut away from the stake , when the fire ha overrunningli wast all the limb without consum them , or take away one particl from their compact age robust . hi whole high , broad form , seem made of solid bronz , and shape in an unalter mould , like cellini ' s cast perseu . thread it way out from among hi grey hair , and continu right down one side of hi tawni scorch face and neck , till it disappear in hi cloth , you saw a slender rod - like mark , lividli whitish . It resembl that perpendicular seam sometim made in the straight , lofti trunk of a great tree , when the upper lightn tearingli dart down it , and without wrench a singl twig , peel and groov out the bark from top to bottom , ere run off into the soil , leav the tree still greenli aliv , but brand . whether that mark wa born with him , or whether it wa the scar left by some desper wound , no one could certainli say . By some tacit consent , throughout the voyag littl or no allus wa made to it , especi by the mate . but onc tashtego ' s senior , an old gay - head indian among the crew , superstiti assert that not till he wa full forti year old did ahab becom that way brand , and then it came upon him , not in the furi of ani mortal fray , but in an element strife at sea . yet , thi wild hint seem inferenti negativ , by what a grey manxman insinu , an old sepulchr man , who , have never befor sail out of nantucket , had never ere thi laid eye upon wild ahab . nevertheless , the old sea - tradit , the immemori credul , popularli invest thi old manxman with preternatur power of discern . So that no white sailor serious contradict him when he said that if ever captain ahab should be tranquilli laid out -- which might hardli come to pass , so he mutter -- then , whoever should do that last offic for the dead , would find a birth - mark on him from crown to sole . So power did the whole grim aspect of ahab affect me , and the livid brand which streak it , that for the first few moment I hardli note that not a littl of thi overbear grim wa owe to the barbar white leg upon which he partli stood . It had previous come to me that thi ivori leg had at sea been fashion from the polish bone of the sperm whale ' s jaw . `` aye , he wa dismast off japan , '' said the old gay - head indian onc ; `` but like hi dismast craft , he ship anoth mast without come home for it . He ha a quiver of ' em . '' I wa struck with the singular postur he maintain . upon each side of the pequod ' s quarter deck , and pretti close to the mizzen shroud , there wa an auger hole , bore about half an inch or so , into the plank . hi bone leg steadi in that hole ; one arm elev , and hold by a shroud ; captain ahab stood erect , look straight out beyond the ship ' s ever - pitch prow . there wa an infin of firmest fortitud , a determin , unsurrender wil , in the fix and fearless , forward dedic of that glanc . not a word he spoke ; nor did hi offic say aught to him ; though by all their minutest gestur and express , they plainli show the uneasi , if not pain , conscious of be under a troubl master - eye . and not onli that , but moodi stricken ahab stood befor them with a crucifixion in hi face ; in all the nameless regal overbear digniti of some mighti woe . ere long , from hi first visit in the air , he withdrew into hi cabin . but after that morn , he wa everi day visibl to the crew ; either stand in hi pivot - hole , or seat upon an ivori stool he had ; or heavili walk the deck . As the sky grew less gloomi ; inde , began to grow a littl genial , he becam still less and less a reclus ; as if , when the ship had sail from home , noth but the dead wintri bleak of the sea had then kept him so seclud . and , by and by , it came to pass , that he wa almost continu in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or percept did , on the at last sunni deck , he seem as unnecessari there as anoth mast . but the pequod wa onli make a passag now ; not regularli cruis ; nearli all whale prepar need supervis the mate were fulli compet to , so that there wa littl or noth , out of himself , to employ or excit ahab , now ; and thu chase away , for that one interv , the cloud that layer upon layer were pile upon hi brow , as ever all cloud choos the loftiest peak to pile themselv upon . nevertheless , ere long , the warm , warbl persuas of the pleasant , holiday weather we came to , seem gradual to charm him from hi mood . for , as when the red - cheek , danc girl , april and may , trip home to the wintri , misanthrop wood ; even the barest , ruggedest , most thunder - cloven old oak will at least send forth some few green sprout , to welcom such glad - heart visit ; so ahab did , in the end , a littl respond to the play allur of that girlish air . more than onc did he put forth the faint blossom of a look , which , in ani other man , would have soon flower out in a smile . chapter 29 enter ahab ; to him , stubb . some day elaps , and ice and iceberg all astern , the pequod now went roll through the bright quito spring , which , at sea , almost perpetu reign on the threshold of the etern august of the tropic . the warmli cool , clear , ring , perfum , overflow , redund day , were as crystal goblet of persian sherbet , heap up -- flake up , with rose - water snow . the star and state night seem haughti dame in jewel velvet , nurs at home in lone pride , the memori of their absent conquer earl , the golden helmet sun ! for sleep man , ' twa hard to choos between such winsom day and such seduc night . but all the witcheri of that unwan weather did not mere lend new spell and potenc to the outward world . inward they turn upon the soul , especi when the still mild hour of eve came on ; then , memori shot her crystal as the clear ice most form of noiseless twilight . and all these subtl agenc , more and more they wrought on ahab ' s textur . old age is alway wake ; as if , the longer link with life , the less man ha to do with aught that look like death . among sea - command , the old greybeard will oftenest leav their berth to visit the night - cloak deck . It wa so with ahab ; onli that now , of late , he seem so much to live in the open air , that truli speak , hi visit were more to the cabin , than from the cabin to the plank . `` It feel like go down into one ' s tomb , '' -- he would mutter to himself -- '' for an old captain like me to be descend thi narrow scuttl , to go to my grave - dug berth . '' So , almost everi twenti - four hour , when the watch of the night were set , and the band on deck sentinel the slumber of the band below ; and when if a rope wa to be haul upon the forecastl , the sailor flung it not rude down , as by day , but with some cautious dropt it to it place for fear of disturb their slumber shipmat ; when thi sort of steadi quietud would begin to prevail , habitu , the silent steersman would watch the cabin - scuttl ; and ere long the old man would emerg , grip at the iron banist , to help hi crippl way . some consid touch of human wa in him ; for at time like these , he usual abstain from patrol the quarter - deck ; becaus to hi weari mate , seek repos within six inch of hi ivori heel , such would have been the reverber crack and din of that boni step , that their dream would have been on the crunch teeth of shark . but onc , the mood wa on him too deep for common regard ; and as with heavi , lumber - like pace he wa measur the ship from taffrail to mainmast , stubb , the old second mate , came up from below , with a certain unassur , deprec humor , hint that if captain ahab wa pleas to walk the plank , then , no one could say nay ; but there might be some way of muffl the nois ; hint someth indistinctli and hesitatingli about a globe of tow , and the insert into it , of the ivori heel . Ah ! stubb , thou didst not know ahab then . `` Am I a cannon - ball , stubb , '' said ahab , `` that thou wouldst wad me that fashion ? but go thi way ; I had forgot . below to thi nightli grave ; where such as ye sleep between shroud , to use ye to the fill one at last . -- down , dog , and kennel ! '' start at the unforseen conclud exclam of the so suddenli scorn old man , stubb wa speechless a moment ; then said excitedli , `` I am not use to be spoken to that way , sir ; I do but less than half like it , sir . '' `` avast ! grit ahab between hi set teeth , and violent move away , as if to avoid some passion temptat . `` No , sir ; not yet , '' said stubb , embolden , `` I will not tame be call a dog , sir . '' `` then be call ten time a donkey , and a mule , and an ass , and begon , or I ' ll clear the world of thee ! '' As he said thi , ahab advanc upon him with such overbear terror in hi aspect , that stubb involuntarili retreat . `` I wa never serv so befor without give a hard blow for it , '' mutter stubb , as he found himself descend the cabin - scuttl . `` It ' s veri queer . stop , stubb ; somehow , now , I don ' t well know whether to go back and strike him , or -- what ' s that ? -- down here on my knee and pray for him ? ye , that wa the thought come up in me ; but it would be the first time I ever did pray . It ' s queer ; veri queer ; and he ' s queer too ; aye , take him fore and aft , he ' s about the queerest old man stubb ever sail with . how he flash at me ! -- hi eye like powder - pan ! is he mad ? anyway there ' s someth on hi mind , as sure as there must be someth on a deck when it crack . He aint in hi bed now , either , more than three hour out of the twenti - four ; and he don ' t sleep then . didn ' t that dough - boy , the steward , tell me that of a morn he alway find the old man ' s hammock cloth all rumpl and tumbl , and the sheet down at the foot , and the coverlid almost tie into knot , and the pillow a sort of fright hot , as though a bake brick had been on it ? A hot old man ! I guess he ' s got what some folk ashor call a conscienc ; it ' s a kind of tic - dolli - row they say -- wors nor a toothach . well , well ; I don ' t know what it is , but the lord keep me from catch it . He ' s full of riddl ; I wonder what he goe into the after hold for , everi night , as dough - boy tell me he suspect ; what ' s that for , I should like to know ? who ' s made appoint with him in the hold ? ain ' t that queer , now ? but there ' s no tell , it ' s the old game -- here goe for a snooz . damn me , it ' s worth a fellow ' s while to be born into the world , if onli to fall right asleep . and now that I think of it , that ' s about the first thing babi do , and that ' s a sort of queer , too . damn me , but all thing are queer , come to think of ' em . but that ' s against my principl . think not , is my eleventh command ; and sleep when you can , is my twelfth -- So here goe again . but how ' s that ? didn ' t he call me a dog ? blaze ! he call me ten time a donkey , and pile a lot of jackass on top of that ! He might as well have kick me , and done with it . mayb he did kick me , and I didn ' t observ it , I wa so taken all aback with hi brow , somehow . It flash like a bleach bone . what the devil ' s the matter with me ? I don ' t stand right on my leg . come afoul of that old man ha a sort of turn me wrong side out . By the lord , I must have been dream , though -- how ? how ? how ? -- but the onli way ' s to stash it ; so here goe to hammock again ; and in the morn , I ' ll see how thi plaguey juggl think over by daylight . '' chapter 30 the pipe . when stubb had depart , ahab stood for a while lean over the bulwark ; and then , as had been usual with him of late , call a sailor of the watch , he sent him below for hi ivori stool , and also hi pipe . light the pipe at the binnacl lamp and plant the stool on the weather side of the deck , he sat and smoke . In old nors time , the throne of the sea - love danish king were fabric , saith tradit , of the tusk of the narwhal . how could one look at ahab then , seat on that tripod of bone , without bethink him of the royalti it symbol ? for a khan of the plank , and a king of the sea , and a great lord of leviathan wa ahab . some moment pass , dure which the thick vapour came from hi mouth in quick and constant puff , which blew back again into hi face . `` how now , '' he soliloqu at last , withdraw the tube , `` thi smoke no longer sooth . Oh , my pipe ! hard must it go with me if thi charm be gone ! here have I been unconsci toil , not pleasur -- aye , and ignorantli smoke to windward all the while ; to windward , and with such nervou whiff , as if , like the die whale , my final jet were the strongest and fullest of troubl . what busi have I with thi pipe ? thi thing that is meant for seren , to send up mild white vapour among mild white hair , not among torn iron - grey lock like mine . I ' ll smoke no more -- '' He toss the still light pipe into the sea . the fire hiss in the wave ; the same instant the ship shot by the bubbl the sink pipe made . with slouch hat , ahab lurchingli pace the plank . chapter 31 queen mab . next morn stubb accost flask . `` such a queer dream , king - post , I never had . you know the old man ' s ivori leg , well I dream he kick me with it ; and when I tri to kick back , upon my soul , my littl man , I kick my leg right off ! and then , presto ! ahab seem a pyramid , and I , like a blaze fool , kept kick at it . but what wa still more curiou , flask -- you know how curiou all dream are -- through all thi rage that I wa in , I somehow seem to be think to myself , that after all , it wa not much of an insult , that kick from ahab . ' whi , ' think I , ' what ' s the row ? It ' s not a real leg , onli a fals leg . ' and there ' s a mighti differ between a live thump and a dead thump . that ' s what make a blow from the hand , flask , fifti time more savag to bear than a blow from a cane . the live member -- that make the live insult , my littl man . and think I to myself all the while , mind , while I wa stub my silli toe against that curs pyramid -- so confoundedli contradictori wa it all , all the while , I say , I wa think to myself , ' what ' s hi leg now , but a cane -- a whalebon cane . ye , ' think I , ' it wa onli a play cudgel -- in fact , onli a whalebon that he gave me -- not a base kick . besid , ' think I , ' look at it onc ; whi , the end of it -- the foot part -- what a small sort of end it is ; wherea , if a broad foot farmer kick me , there ' S a devilish broad insult . but thi insult is whittl down to a point onli . ' but now come the greatest joke of the dream , flask . while I wa batter away at the pyramid , a sort of badger - hair old merman , with a hump on hi back , take me by the shoulder , and slew me round . ' what are you ' bout ? ' say he . slid ! man , but I wa frighten . such a phiz ! but , somehow , next moment I wa over the fright . ' what am I about ? ' say I at last . ' and what busi is that of your , I should like to know , Mr . humpback ? Do you want a kick ? ' By the lord , flask , I had no sooner said that , than he turn round hi stern to me , bent over , and drag up a lot of seawe he had for a clout -- what do you think , I saw ? -- whi thunder aliv , man , hi stern wa stuck full of marlinspik , with the point out . say I , on second thought , ' I guess I won ' t kick you , old fellow . ' ' wise stubb , ' said he , ' wise stubb ; ' and kept mutter it all the time , a sort of eat of hi own gum like a chimney hag . see he wasn ' t go to stop say over hi ' wise stubb , wise stubb , ' I thought I might as well fall to kick the pyramid again . but I had onli just lift my foot for it , when he roar out , ' stop that kick ! ' ' halloa , ' say I , ' what ' s the matter now , old fellow ? ' ' look ye here , ' say he ; ' let ' s argu the insult . captain ahab kick ye , didn ' t he ? ' ' ye , he did , ' say I -- ' right here it wa . ' ' veri good , ' say he -- ' he use hi ivori leg , didn ' t he ? ' ' ye , he did , ' say I . ' well then , ' say he , ' wise stubb , what have you to complain of ? didn ' t he kick with right good will ? it wasn ' t a common pitch pine leg he kick with , wa it ? No , you were kick by a great man , and with a beauti ivori leg , stubb . It ' s an honour ; I consid it an honour . listen , wise stubb . In old england the greatest lord think it great glori to be slap by a queen , and made garter - knight of ; but , be your boast , stubb , that ye were kick by old ahab , and made a wise man of . rememb what I say ; BE kick by him ; account hi kick honour ; and on no account kick back ; for you can ' t help yourself , wise stubb . don ' t you see that pyramid ? ' with that , he all of a sudden seem somehow , in some queer fashion , to swim off into the air . I snore ; roll over ; and there I wa in my hammock ! now , what do you think of that dream , flask ? '' `` I don ' t know ; it seem a sort of foolish to me , tho . ' '' `` may be ; may be . but it ' s made a wise man of me , flask . D ' ye see ahab stand there , sideway look over the stern ? well , the best thing you can do , flask , is to let the old man alon ; never speak to him , whatev he say . halloa ! what ' s that he shout ? hark ! '' `` mast - head , there ! look sharp , all of ye ! there are whale hereabout ! If ye see a white one , split your lung for him ! `` what do you think of that now , flask ? ain ' t there a small drop of someth queer about that , eh ? A white whale -- did ye mark that , man ? look ye -- there ' s someth special in the wind . stand by for it , flask . ahab ha that that ' s bloodi on hi mind . but , mum ; he come thi way . '' chapter 32 cetolog . alreadi we are boldli launch upon the deep ; but soon we shall be lost in it unshor , harbourless immens . ere that come to pass ; ere the pequod ' s weedi hull roll side by side with the barnacl hull of the leviathan ; at the outset it is but well to attend to a matter almost indispens to a thorough appreci understand of the more special leviathan revel and allus of all sort which are to follow . It is some systemat exhibit of the whale in hi broad genera , that I would now fain put befor you . yet is it no easi task . the classif of the constitu of a chao , noth less is here essay . listen to what the best and latest author have laid down . `` No branch of zoolog is so much involv as that which is entitl cetolog , '' say captain scoresbi , A . D . 1820 . `` It is not my intent , were it in my power , to enter into the inquiri as to the true method of divid the cetacea into group and famili .... utter confus exist among the historian of thi anim `` ( sperm whale ) , say surgeon beal , A . D . 1839 . `` unfit to pursu our research in the unfathom water . '' `` impenetr veil cover our knowledg of the cetacea . '' `` A field strewn with thorn . '' `` all these incomplet indic but serv to tortur us naturalist . '' thu speak of the whale , the great cuvier , and john hunter , and lesson , those light of zoolog and anatomi . nevertheless , though of real knowledg there be littl , yet of book there are a plenti ; and so in some small degre , with cetolog , or the scienc of whale . mani are the men , small and great , old and new , landsmen and seamen , who have at larg or in littl , written of the whale . run over a few : -- the author of the bibl ; aristotl ; plini ; aldrovandi ; sir thoma brown ; gesner ; ray ; linnaeu ; rondeletiu ; willoughbi ; green ; artedi ; sibbald ; brisson ; marten ; laceped ; bonneterr ; desmarest ; baron cuvier ; frederick cuvier ; john hunter ; owen ; scoresbi ; beal ; bennett ; J . ross brown ; the author of miriam coffin ; olmstead ; and the rev . T . cheever . but to what ultim gener purpos all these have written , the abov cite extract will show . Of the name in thi list of whale author , onli those follow owen ever saw live whale ; and but one of them wa a real profession harpoon and whaleman . I mean captain scoresbi . On the separ subject of the greenland or right - whale , he is the best exist author . but scoresbi knew noth and say noth of the great sperm whale , compar with which the greenland whale is almost unworthi mention . and here be it said , that the greenland whale is an usurp upon the throne of the sea . He is not even by ani mean the largest of the whale . yet , owe to the long prioriti of hi claim , and the profound ignor which , till some seventi year back , invest the then fabul or utterli unknown sperm - whale , and which ignor to thi present day still reign in all but some few scientif retreat and whale - port ; thi usurp ha been everi way complet . refer to nearli all the leviathan allus in the great poet of past day , will satisfi you that the greenland whale , without one rival , wa to them the monarch of the sea . but the time ha at last come for a new proclam . thi is chare cross ; hear ye ! good peopl all , -- the greenland whale is depos , -- the great sperm whale now reigneth ! there are onli two book in be which at all pretend to put the live sperm whale befor you , and at the same time , in the remotest degre succeed in the attempt . those book are beal ' s and bennett ' s ; both in their time surgeon to english south - sea whale - ship , and both exact and reliabl men . the origin matter touch the sperm whale to be found in their volum is necessarili small ; but so far as it goe , it is of excel qualiti , though mostli confin to scientif descript . As yet , howev , the sperm whale , scientif or poetic , live not complet in ani literatur . far abov all other hunt whale , hi is an unwritten life . now the variou speci of whale need some sort of popular comprehens classif , if onli an easi outlin one for the present , hereaft to be fill in all it depart by subsequ labor . As no better man advanc to take thi matter in hand , I hereupon offer my own poor endeavor . I promis noth complet ; becaus ani human thing suppos to be complet , must for that veri reason infal be faulti . I shall not pretend to a minut anatom descript of the variou speci , or -- in thi place at least -- to much of ani descript . My object here is simpli to project the draught of a systemat of cetolog . I am the architect , not the builder . but it is a ponder task ; no ordinari letter - sorter in the post - offic is equal to it . To grope down into the bottom of the sea after them ; to have one ' s hand among the unspeak foundat , rib , and veri pelvi of the world ; thi is a fear thing . what am I that I should essay to hook the nose of thi leviathan ! the aw taunt in job might well appal me . `` will he the ( leviathan ) make a coven with thee ? behold the hope of him is vain ! but I have swam through librari and sail through ocean ; I have had to do with whale with these visibl hand ; I am in earnest ; and I will tri . there are some preliminari to settl . first : the uncertain , unsettl condit of thi scienc of cetolog is in the veri vestibul attest by the fact , that in some quarter it still remain a moot point whether a whale be a fish . In hi system of natur , A . D . 1776 , linnaeu declar , `` I herebi separ the whale from the fish . '' but of my own knowledg , I know that down to the year 1850 , shark and shad , alew and her , against linnaeu ' s express edict , were still found divid the possess of the same sea with the leviathan . the ground upon which linnaeu would fain have banish the whale from the water , he state as follow : `` On account of their warm bilocular heart , their lung , their movabl eyelid , their hollow ear , penem intrantem feminam mammi lactantem , '' and final , `` ex lege natura jure meritoqu . '' I submit all thi to my friend simeon macey and charley coffin , of nantucket , both messmat of mine in a certain voyag , and they unit in the opinion that the reason set forth were altogeth insuffici . charley profan hint they were humbug . Be it known that , waiv all argument , I take the good old fashion ground that the whale is a fish , and call upon holi jonah to back me . thi fundament thing settl , the next point is , in what intern respect doe the whale differ from other fish . abov , linnaeu ha given you those item . but in brief , they are these : lung and warm blood ; wherea , all other fish are lungless and cold blood . next : how shall we defin the whale , by hi obviou extern , so as conspicu to label him for all time to come ? To be short , then , a whale is A spout fish with A horizont tail . there you have him . howev contract , that definit is the result of expand medit . A walru spout much like a whale , but the walru is not a fish , becaus he is amphibi . but the last term of the definit is still more cogent , as coupl with the first . almost ani one must have notic that all the fish familiar to landsmen have not a flat , but a vertic , or up - and - down tail . wherea , among spout fish the tail , though it may be similarli shape , invari assum a horizont posit . By the abov definit of what a whale is , I do by no mean exclud from the leviathan brotherhood ani sea creatur hitherto identifi with the whale by the best inform nantucket ; nor , on the other hand , link with it ani fish hitherto authorit regard as alien . * henc , all the smaller , spout , and horizont tail fish must be includ in thi ground - plan of cetolog . now , then , come the grand divis of the entir whale host . * I am awar that down to the present time , the fish style lamatin and dugong ( pig - fish and sow - fish of the coffin of nantucket ) are includ by mani naturalist among the whale . but as these pig - fish are a noisi , contempt set , mostli lurk in the mouth of river , and feed on wet hay , and especi as they do not spout , I deni their credenti as whale ; and have present them with their passport to quit the kingdom of cetolog . first : accord to magnitud I divid the whale into three primari book ( subdivis into chapter ) , and these shall comprehend them all , both small and larg . I . the folio whale ; II . the octavo whale ; iii . the duodecimo whale . As the type of the folio I present the sperm whale ; of the octavo , the grampu ; of the duodecimo , the porpois . folio . among these I here includ the follow chapter : -- I . the sperm whale ; II . the right whale ; iii . the fin - back whale ; IV . the hump - back whale ; V . the razor - back whale ; VI . the sulphur - bottom whale . book I . ( folio ) , chapter I . ( sperm whale ) . -- thi whale , among the english of old vagu known as the trumpa whale , and the physet whale , and the anvil head whale , is the present cachalot of the french , and the pottsfich of the german , and the macrocephalu of the long word . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabit of the globe ; the most formid of all whale to encount ; the most majest in aspect ; and lastli , by far the most valuabl in commerc ; he be the onli creatur from which that valuabl substanc , spermaceti , is obtain . all hi peculiar will , in mani other place , be enlarg upon . It is chiefli with hi name that I now have to do . philolog consid , it is absurd . some centuri ago , when the sperm whale wa almost wholli unknown in hi own proper individu , and when hi oil wa onli accident obtain from the strand fish ; in those day spermaceti , it would seem , wa popularli suppos to be deriv from a creatur ident with the one then known in england as the greenland or right whale . It wa the idea also , that thi same spermaceti wa that quicken humor of the greenland whale which the first syllabl of the word liter express . In those time , also , spermaceti wa exceedingli scarc , not be use for light , but onli as an ointment and medica . It wa onli to be had from the druggist as you nowaday buy an ounc of rhubarb . when , as I opin , in the cours of time , the true natur of spermaceti becam known , it origin name wa still retain by the dealer ; no doubt to enhanc it valu by a notion so strang signific of it scarciti . and so the appel must at last have come to be bestow upon the whale from which thi spermaceti wa realli deriv . book I . ( folio ) , chapter II . ( right whale ) . -- In one respect thi is the most vener of the leviathan , be the one first regularli hunt by man . It yield the articl commonli known as whalebon or baleen ; and the oil special known as `` whale oil , '' an inferior articl in commerc . among the fishermen , he is indiscrimin design by all the follow titl : the whale ; the greenland whale ; the black whale ; the great whale ; the true whale ; the right whale . there is a deal of obscur concern the ident of the speci thu multitudin baptis . what then is the whale , which I includ in the second speci of my folio ? It is the great mysticetu of the english naturalist ; the greenland whale of the english whalemen ; the balien ordinair of the french whalemen ; the growland walfish of the swede . It is the whale which for more than two centuri past ha been hunt by the dutch and english in the arctic sea ; it is the whale which the american fishermen have long pursu in the indian ocean , on the brazil bank , on the nor ' west coast , and variou other part of the world , design by them right whale cruis ground . some pretend to see a differ between the greenland whale of the english and the right whale of the american . but they precis agre in all their grand featur ; nor ha there yet been present a singl determin fact upon which to ground a radic distinct . It is by endless subdivis base upon the most inconclus differ , that some depart of natur histori becom so repellingli intric . the right whale will be elsewher treat of at some length , with refer to elucid the sperm whale . book I . ( folio ) , chapter iii . ( fin - back ) . -- under thi head I reckon a monster which , by the variou name of fin - back , tall - spout , and long - john , ha been seen almost in everi sea and is commonli the whale whose distant jet is so often descri by passeng cross the atlant , in the new york packet - track . In the length he attain , and in hi baleen , the fin - back resembl the right whale , but is of a less portli girth , and a lighter colour , approach to oliv . hi great lip present a cabl - like aspect , form by the intertwist , slant fold of larg wrinkl . hi grand distinguish featur , the fin , from which he deriv hi name , is often a conspicu object . thi fin is some three or four feet long , grow vertic from the hinder part of the back , of an angular shape , and with a veri sharp point end . even if not the slightest other part of the creatur be visibl , thi isol fin will , at time , be seen plainli project from the surfac . when the sea is moder calm , and slightli mark with spheric rippl , and thi gnomon - like fin stand up and cast shadow upon the wrinkl surfac , it may well be suppos that the wateri circl surround it somewhat resembl a dial , with it style and wavi hour - line grave on it . On that ahaz - dial the shadow often goe back . the fin - back is not gregari . He seem a whale - hater , as some men are man - hater . veri shi ; alway go solitari ; unexpectedli rise to the surfac in the remotest and most sullen water ; hi straight and singl lofti jet rise like a tall misanthrop spear upon a barren plain ; gift with such wondrou power and veloc in swim , as to defi all present pursuit from man ; thi leviathan seem the banish and unconquer cain of hi race , bear for hi mark that style upon hi back . from have the baleen in hi mouth , the fin - back is sometim includ with the right whale , among a theoret speci denomin whalebon whale , that is , whale with baleen . Of these so call whalebon whale , there would seem to be sever varieti , most of which , howev , are littl known . broad - nose whale and beak whale ; pike - head whale ; bunch whale ; under - jaw whale and rostrat whale , are the fishermen ' s name for a few sort . In connect with thi appel of `` whalebon whale , '' it is of great import to mention , that howev such a nomenclatur may be conveni in facilit allus to some kind of whale , yet it is in vain to attempt a clear classif of the leviathan , found upon either hi baleen , or hump , or fin , or teeth ; notwithstand that those mark part or featur veri obvious seem better adapt to afford the basi for a regular system of cetolog than ani other detach bodili distinct , which the whale , in hi kind , present . how then ? the baleen , hump , back - fin , and teeth ; these are thing whose peculiar are indiscrimin dispers among all sort of whale , without ani regard to what may be the natur of their structur in other and more essenti particular . thu , the sperm whale and the humpback whale , each ha a hump ; but there the similitud ceas . then , thi same humpback whale and the greenland whale , each of these ha baleen ; but there again the similitud ceas . and it is just the same with the other part abov mention . In variou sort of whale , they form such irregular combin ; or , in the case of ani one of them detach , such an irregular isol ; as utterli to defi all gener method form upon such a basi . On thi rock everi one of the whale - naturalist ha split . but it may possibl be conceiv that , in the intern part of the whale , in hi anatomi -- there , at least , we shall be abl to hit the right classif . nay ; what thing , for exampl , is there in the greenland whale ' s anatomi more strike than hi baleen ? yet we have seen that by hi baleen it is imposs correctli to classifi the greenland whale . and if you descend into the bowel of the variou leviathan , whi there you will not find distinct a fiftieth part as avail to the systemat as those extern one alreadi enumer . what then remain ? noth but to take hold of the whale bodili , in their entir liber volum , and boldli sort them that way . and thi is the bibliograph system here adopt ; and it is the onli one that can possibl succeed , for it alon is practic . To proceed . book I . ( folio ) chapter IV . ( hump - back ) . -- thi whale is often seen on the northern american coast . He ha been frequent captur there , and tow into harbor . He ha a great pack on him like a peddler ; or you might call him the eleph and castl whale . At ani rate , the popular name for him doe not suffici distinguish him , sinc the sperm whale also ha a hump though a smaller one . hi oil is not veri valuabl . He ha baleen . He is the most gamesom and light - heart of all the whale , make more gay foam and white water gener than ani other of them . book I . ( folio ) , chapter V . ( razor - back ) . -- Of thi whale littl is known but hi name . I have seen him at a distanc off cape horn . Of a retir natur , he elud both hunter and philosoph . though no coward , he ha never yet shown ani part of him but hi back , which rise in a long sharp ridg . let him go . I know littl more of him , nor doe anybodi els . book I . ( folio ) , chapter VI . ( sulphur - bottom ) . -- anoth retir gentleman , with a brimston belli , doubtless got by scrape along the tartarian tile in some of hi profound dive . He is seldom seen ; at least I have never seen him except in the remot southern sea , and then alway at too great a distanc to studi hi counten . He is never chase ; he would run away with rope - walk of line . prodigi are told of him . adieu , sulphur bottom ! I can say noth more that is true of ye , nor can the oldest nantucket . thu end book I . ( folio ) , and now begin book II . ( octavo ) . octavo . * -- these embrac the whale of middl magnitud , among which present may be number : -- I . , the grampu ; II . , the black fish ; iii . , the narwhal ; IV . , the thrasher ; V . , the killer . * whi thi book of whale is not denomin the quarto is veri plain . becaus , while the whale of thi order , though smaller than those of the former order , nevertheless retain a proportion like to them in figur , yet the bookbind ' s quarto volum in it dimens form doe not preserv the shape of the folio volum , but the octavo volum doe . book II . ( octavo ) , chapter I . ( grampu ) . -- though thi fish , whose loud sonor breath , or rather blow , ha furnish a proverb to landsmen , is so well known a denizen of the deep , yet is he not popularli class among whale . but possess all the grand distinct featur of the leviathan , most naturalist have recognis him for one . He is of moder octavo size , vari from fifteen to twenti - five feet in length , and of correspond dimens round the waist . He swim in herd ; he is never regularli hunt , though hi oil is consider in quantiti , and pretti good for light . By some fishermen hi approach is regard as premonitori of the advanc of the great sperm whale . book II . ( octavo ) , chapter II . ( black fish ) . -- I give the popular fishermen ' s name for all these fish , for gener they are the best . where ani name happen to be vagu or inexpress , I shall say so , and suggest anoth . I do so now , touch the black fish , so - call , becaus black is the rule among almost all whale . So , call him the hyena whale , if you pleas . hi vorac is well known , and from the circumst that the inner angl of hi lip are curv upward , he carri an everlast mephistophelean grin on hi face . thi whale averag some sixteen or eighteen feet in length . He is found in almost all latitud . He ha a peculiar way of show hi dorsal hook fin in swim , which look someth like a roman nose . when not more profit employ , the sperm whale hunter sometim captur the hyena whale , to keep up the suppli of cheap oil for domest employ -- as some frugal housekeep , in the absenc of compani , and quit alon by themselv , burn unsavori tallow instead of odor wax . though their blubber is veri thin , some of these whale will yield you upward of thirti gallon of oil . book II . ( octavo ) , chapter iii . ( narwhal ) , that is , nostril whale . -- anoth instanc of a curious name whale , so name I suppos from hi peculiar horn be origin mistaken for a peak nose . the creatur is some sixteen feet in length , while it horn averag five feet , though some exceed ten , and even attain to fifteen feet . strictli speak , thi horn is but a lengthen tusk , grow out from the jaw in a line a littl depress from the horizont . but it is onli found on the sinist side , which ha an ill effect , give it owner someth analog to the aspect of a clumsi left - hand man . what precis purpos thi ivori horn or lanc answer , it would be hard to say . It doe not seem to be use like the blade of the sword - fish and bill - fish ; though some sailor tell me that the narwhal employ it for a rake in turn over the bottom of the sea for food . charley coffin said it wa use for an ice - piercer ; for the narwhal , rise to the surfac of the polar sea , and find it sheet with ice , thrust hi horn up , and so break through . but you can not prove either of these surmis to be correct . My own opinion is , that howev thi one - side horn may realli be use by the narwhal -- howev that may be -- it would certainli be veri conveni to him for a folder in read pamphlet . the narwhal I have heard call the tusk whale , the horn whale , and the unicorn whale . He is certainli a curiou exampl of the unicorn to be found in almost everi kingdom of anim natur . from certain cloister old author I have gather that thi same sea - unicorn ' s horn wa in ancient day regard as the great antidot against poison , and as such , prepar of it brought immens price . It wa also distil to a volatil salt for faint ladi , the same way that the horn of the male deer are manufactur into hartshorn . origin it wa in itself account an object of great curios . black letter tell me that sir martin frobish on hi return from that voyag , when queen bess did gallantli wave her jewel hand to him from a window of greenwich palac , as hi bold ship sail down the thame ; `` when sir martin return from that voyag , '' saith black letter , `` on bend knee he present to her high a prodigi long horn of the narwhal , which for a long period after hung in the castl at windsor . '' An irish author aver that the earl of leicest , on bend knee , did likewis present to her high anoth horn , pertain to a land beast of the unicorn natur . the narwhal ha a veri picturesqu , leopard - like look , be of a milk - white ground colour , dot with round and oblong spot of black . hi oil is veri superior , clear and fine ; but there is littl of it , and he is seldom hunt . He is mostli found in the circumpolar sea . book II . ( octavo ) , chapter IV . ( killer ) . -- Of thi whale littl is precis known to the nantucket , and noth at all to the profess naturalist . from what I have seen of him at a distanc , I should say that he wa about the big of a grampu . He is veri savag -- a sort of feege fish . He sometim take the great folio whale by the lip , and hang there like a leech , till the mighti brute is worri to death . the killer is never hunt . I never heard what sort of oil he ha . except might be taken to the name bestow upon thi whale , on the ground of it indistinct . for we are all killer , on land and on sea ; bonapart and shark includ . book II . ( octavo ) , chapter V . ( thrasher ) . -- thi gentleman is famou for hi tail , which he use for a ferul in thrash hi foe . He mount the folio whale ' s back , and as he swim , he work hi passag by flog him ; as some schoolmast get along in the world by a similar process . still less is known of the thrasher than of the killer . both are outlaw , even in the lawless sea . thu end book II . ( octavo ) , and begin book iii . ( duodecimo ) . duodecimo . -- these includ the smaller whale . I . the huzza porpois . II . the algerin porpois . iii . the meali - mouth porpois . To those who have not chanc special to studi the subject , it may possibl seem strang , that fish not commonli exceed four or five feet should be marshal among whale -- a word , which , in the popular sens , alway convey an idea of huge . but the creatur set down abov as duodecimo are infal whale , by the term of my definit of what a whale is -- i . e . a spout fish , with a horizont tail . book iii . ( duodecimo ) , chapter 1 . ( huzza porpois ) . -- thi is the common porpois found almost all over the globe . the name is of my own bestow ; for there are more than one sort of porpois , and someth must be done to distinguish them . I call him thu , becaus he alway swim in hilari shoal , which upon the broad sea keep toss themselv to heaven like cap in a fourth - of - juli crowd . their appear is gener hail with delight by the marin . full of fine spirit , they invari come from the breezi billow to windward . they are the lad that alway live befor the wind . they are account a lucki omen . If you yourself can withstand three cheer at behold these vivaci fish , then heaven help ye ; the spirit of godli gamesom is not in ye . A well - fed , plump huzza porpois will yield you one good gallon of good oil . but the fine and delic fluid extract from hi jaw is exceedingli valuabl . It is in request among jewel and watchmak . sailor put it on their hone . porpois meat is good eat , you know . It may never have occur to you that a porpois spout . inde , hi spout is so small that it is not veri readili discern . but the next time you have a chanc , watch him ; and you will then see the great sperm whale himself in miniatur . book iii . ( duodecimo ) , chapter II . ( algerin porpois ) . -- A pirat . veri savag . He is onli found , I think , in the pacif . He is somewhat larger than the huzza porpois , but much of the same gener make . provok him , and he will buckl to a shark . I have lower for him mani time , but never yet saw him captur . book iii . ( duodecimo ) , chapter iii . ( meali - mouth porpois ) . -- the largest kind of porpois ; and onli found in the pacif , so far as it is known . the onli english name , by which he ha hitherto been design , is that of the fisher -- right - whale porpois , from the circumst that he is chiefli found in the vicin of that folio . In shape , he differ in some degre from the huzza porpois , be of a less rotund and jolli girth ; inde , he is of quit a neat and gentleman - like figur . He ha no fin on hi back ( most other porpois have ) , he ha a love tail , and sentiment indian eye of a hazel hue . but hi meali - mouth spoil all . though hi entir back down to hi side fin is of a deep sabl , yet a boundari line , distinct as the mark in a ship ' s hull , call the `` bright waist , '' that line streak him from stem to stern , with two separ colour , black abov and white below . the white compris part of hi head , and the whole of hi mouth , which make him look as if he had just escap from a feloni visit to a meal - bag . A most mean and meali aspect ! hi oil is much like that of the common porpois . beyond the duodecimo , thi system doe not proceed , inasmuch as the porpois is the smallest of the whale . abov , you have all the leviathan of note . but there are a rabbl of uncertain , fugit , half - fabul whale , which , as an american whaleman , I know by reput , but not person . I shall enumer them by their fore - castl appel ; for possibl such a list may be valuabl to futur investig , who may complet what I have here but begun . If ani of the follow whale , shall hereaft be caught and mark , then he can readili be incorpor into thi system , accord to hi folio , octavo , or duodecimo magnitud : -- the bottl - nose whale ; the junk whale ; the pud - head whale ; the cape whale ; the lead whale ; the cannon whale ; the scragg whale ; the copper whale ; the eleph whale ; the iceberg whale ; the quog whale ; the blue whale ; etc . from iceland , dutch , and old english author , there might be quot other list of uncertain whale , bless with all manner of uncouth name . but I omit them as altogeth obsolet ; and can hardli help suspect them for mere sound , full of leviathan , but signifi noth . final : It wa state at the outset , that thi system would not be here , and at onc , perfect . you can not but plainli see that I have kept my word . but I now leav my cetolog system stand thu unfinish , even as the great cathedr of cologn wa left , with the crane still stand upon the top of the uncomplet tower . for small erect may be finish by their first architect ; grand one , true one , ever leav the copeston to poster . god keep me from ever complet anyth . thi whole book is but a draught -- nay , but the draught of a draught . Oh , time , strength , cash , and patienc ! chapter 33 the specksynd . concern the offic of the whale - craft , thi seem as good a place as ani to set down a littl domest peculiar on ship - board , aris from the exist of the harpoon class of offic , a class unknown of cours in ani other marin than the whale - fleet . the larg import attach to the harpoon ' s vocat is evinc by the fact , that origin in the old dutch fisheri , two centuri and more ago , the command of a whale ship wa not wholli lodg in the person now call the captain , but wa divid between him and an offic call the specksynd . liter thi word mean fat - cutter ; usag , howev , in time made it equival to chief harpoon . In those day , the captain ' s author wa restrict to the navig and gener manag of the vessel ; while over the whale - hunt depart and all it concern , the specksynd or chief harpoon reign suprem . In the british greenland fisheri , under the corrupt titl of specksion , thi old dutch offici is still retain , but hi former digniti is sadli abridg . At present he rank simpli as senior harpoon ; and as such , is but one of the captain ' s more inferior subaltern . nevertheless , as upon the good conduct of the harpoon the success of a whale voyag larg depend , and sinc in the american fisheri he is not onli an import offic in the boat , but under certain circumst ( night watch on a whale ground ) the command of the ship ' s deck is also hi ; therefor the grand polit maxim of the sea demand , that he should nomin live apart from the men befor the mast , and be in some way distinguish as their profession superior ; though alway , by them , familiarli regard as their social equal . now , the grand distinct drawn between offic and man at sea , is thi -- the first live aft , the last forward . henc , in whale - ship and merchantmen alik , the mate have their quarter with the captain ; and so , too , in most of the american whaler the harpoon are lodg in the after part of the ship . that is to say , they take their meal in the captain ' s cabin , and sleep in a place indirectli commun with it . though the long period of a southern whale voyag ( by far the longest of all voyag now or ever made by man ) , the peculiar peril of it , and the commun of interest prevail among a compani , all of whom , high or low , depend for their profit , not upon fix wage , but upon their common luck , togeth with their common vigil , intrepid , and hard work ; though all these thing do in some case tend to beget a less rigor disciplin than in merchantmen gener ; yet , never mind how much like an old mesopotamian famili these whalemen may , in some primit instanc , live togeth ; for all that , the punctili extern , at least , of the quarter - deck are seldom materi relax , and in no instanc done away . inde , mani are the nantucket ship in which you will see the skipper parad hi quarter - deck with an elat grandeur not surpass in ani militari navi ; nay , extort almost as much outward homag as if he wore the imperi purpl , and not the shabbiest of pilot - cloth . and though of all men the moodi captain of the pequod wa the least given to that sort of shallowest assumpt ; and though the onli homag he ever exact , wa implicit , instantan obedi ; though he requir no man to remov the shoe from hi feet ere step upon the quarter - deck ; and though there were time when , owe to peculiar circumst connect with event hereaft to be detail , he address them in unusu term , whether of condescens or IN terrorem , or otherwis ; yet even captain ahab wa by no mean unobserv of the paramount form and usag of the sea . nor , perhap , will it fail to be eventu perceiv , that behind those form and usag , as it were , he sometim mask himself ; incident make use of them for other and more privat end than they were legitim intend to subserv . that certain sultan of hi brain , which had otherwis in a good degre remain unmanifest ; through those form that same sultan becam incarn in an irresist dictatorship . for be a man ' s intellectu superior what it will , it can never assum the practic , avail supremaci over other men , without the aid of some sort of extern art and entrench , alway , in themselv , more or less paltri and base . thi it is , that for ever keep god ' s true princ of the empir from the world ' s hust ; and leav the highest honour that thi air can give , to those men who becom famou more through their infinit inferior to the choic hidden hand of the divin inert , than through their undoubt superior over the dead level of the mass . such larg virtu lurk in these small thing when extrem polit superstit invest them , that in some royal instanc even to idiot imbecil they have impart potenc . but when , as in the case of nichola the czar , the ring crown of geograph empir encircl an imperi brain ; then , the plebeian herd crouch abas befor the tremend central . nor , will the tragic dramatist who would depict mortal indomit in it fullest sweep and direct swing , ever forget a hint , incident so import in hi art , as the one now allud to . but ahab , my captain , still move befor me in all hi nantucket grim and shaggi ; and in thi episod touch emperor and king , I must not conceal that I have onli to do with a poor old whale - hunter like him ; and , therefor , all outward majest trap and hous are deni me . Oh , ahab ! what shall be grand in thee , it must need be pluck at from the sky , and dive for in the deep , and featur in the unbodi air ! chapter 34 the cabin - tabl . It is noon ; and dough - boy , the steward , thrust hi pale loaf - of - bread face from the cabin - scuttl , announc dinner to hi lord and master ; who , sit in the lee quarter - boat , ha just been take an observ of the sun ; and is now mute reckon the latitud on the smooth , medallion - shape tablet , reserv for that daili purpos on the upper part of hi ivori leg . from hi complet inattent to the tide , you would think that moodi ahab had not heard hi menial . but present , catch hold of the mizen shroud , he swing himself to the deck , and in an even , unexhilar voic , say , `` dinner , Mr . starbuck , '' disappear into the cabin . when the last echo of hi sultan ' s step ha die away , and starbuck , the first emir , ha everi reason to suppos that he is seat , then starbuck rous from hi quietud , take a few turn along the plank , and , after a grave peep into the binnacl , say , with some touch of pleasant , `` dinner , Mr . stubb , '' and descend the scuttl . the second emir loung about the rig awhil , and then slightli shake the main brace , to see whether it will be all right with that import rope , he likewis take up the old burden , and with a rapid `` dinner , Mr . flask , '' follow after hi predecessor . but the third emir , now see himself all alon on the quarter - deck , seem to feel reliev from some curiou restraint ; for , tip all sort of know wink in all sort of direct , and kick off hi shoe , he strike into a sharp but noiseless squall of a hornpip right over the grand turk ' s head ; and then , by a dexter sleight , pitch hi cap up into the mizentop for a shelf , he goe down rollick so far at least as he remain visibl from the deck , revers all other process , by bring up the rear with music . but ere step into the cabin doorway below , he paus , ship a new face altogeth , and , then , independ , hilari littl flask enter king ahab ' s presenc , in the charact of abjectu , or the slave . It is not the least among the strang thing bred by the intens artifici of sea - usag , that while in the open air of the deck some offic will , upon provoc , bear themselv boldli and defyingli enough toward their command ; yet , ten to one , let those veri offic the next moment go down to their customari dinner in that same command ' s cabin , and straightway their inoffens , not to say deprecatori and humbl air toward him , as he sit at the head of the tabl ; thi is marvel , sometim most comic . wherefor thi differ ? A problem ? perhap not . To have been belshazzar , king of babylon ; and to have been belshazzar , not haughtili but courteous , therein certainli must have been some touch of mundan grandeur . but he who in the rightli regal and intellig spirit presid over hi own privat dinner - tabl of invit guest , that man ' s unchalleng power and dominion of individu influenc for the time ; that man ' s royalti of state transcend belshazzar ' s , for belshazzar wa not the greatest . who ha but onc dine hi friend , ha tast what it is to be caesar . It is a witcheri of social czarship which there is no withstand . now , if to thi consider you superadd the offici supremaci of a ship - master , then , by infer , you will deriv the caus of that peculiar of sea - life just mention . over hi ivori - inlaid tabl , ahab presid like a mute , mane sea - lion on the white coral beach , surround by hi warlik but still deferenti cub . In hi own proper turn , each offic wait to be serv . they were as littl children befor ahab ; and yet , in ahab , there seem not to lurk the smallest social arrog . with one mind , their intent eye all fasten upon the old man ' s knife , as he carv the chief dish befor him . I do not suppos that for the world they would have profan that moment with the slightest observ , even upon so neutral a topic as the weather . No ! and when reach out hi knife and fork , between which the slice of beef wa lock , ahab therebi motion starbuck ' s plate toward him , the mate receiv hi meat as though receiv alm ; and cut it tenderli ; and a littl start if , perchanc , the knife graze against the plate ; and chew it noiselessli ; and swallow it , not without circumspect . for , like the coron banquet at frankfort , where the german emperor profoundli dine with the seven imperi elector , so these cabin meal were somehow solemn meal , eaten in aw silenc ; and yet at tabl old ahab forbad not convers ; onli he himself wa dumb . what a relief it wa to choke stubb , when a rat made a sudden racket in the hold below . and poor littl flask , he wa the youngest son , and littl boy of thi weari famili parti . hi were the shinbon of the salin beef ; hi would have been the drumstick . for flask to have presum to help himself , thi must have seem to him tantamount to larceni in the first degre . had he help himself at that tabl , doubtless , never more would he have been abl to hold hi head up in thi honest world ; nevertheless , strang to say , ahab never forbad him . and had flask help himself , the chanc were ahab had never so much as notic it . least of all , did flask presum to help himself to butter . whether he thought the owner of the ship deni it to him , on account of it clot hi clear , sunni complexion ; or whether he deem that , on so long a voyag in such marketless water , butter wa at a premium , and therefor wa not for him , a subaltern ; howev it wa , flask , ala ! wa a butterless man ! anoth thing . flask wa the last person down at the dinner , and flask is the first man up . consid ! for herebi flask ' s dinner wa badli jam in point of time . starbuck and stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privileg of loung in the rear . If stubb even , who is but a peg higher than flask , happen to have but a small appetit , and soon show symptom of conclud hi repast , then flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouth that day ; for it is against holi usag for stubb to preced flask to the deck . therefor it wa that flask onc admit in privat , that ever sinc he had arisen to the digniti of an offic , from that moment he had never known what it wa to be otherwis than hungri , more or less . for what he ate did not so much reliev hi hunger , as keep it immort in him . peac and satisfact , thought flask , have for ever depart from my stomach . I am an offic ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashion beef in the forecastl , as I use to when I wa befor the mast . there ' s the fruit of promot now ; there ' s the vaniti of glori : there ' s the insan of life ! besid , if it were so that ani mere sailor of the pequod had a grudg against flask in flask ' s offici capac , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ampl vengeanc , wa to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at flask through the cabin sky - light , sit silli and dumfound befor aw ahab . now , ahab and hi three mate form what may be call the first tabl in the pequod ' s cabin . after their departur , take place in invert order to their arriv , the canva cloth wa clear , or rather wa restor to some hurri order by the pallid steward . and then the three harpoon were bidden to the feast , they be it residuari legate . they made a sort of temporari servant ' hall of the high and mighti cabin . In strang contrast to the hardli toler constraint and nameless invis domin of the captain ' s tabl , wa the entir care - free licens and eas , the almost frantic democraci of those inferior fellow the harpoon . while their master , the mate , seem afraid of the sound of the hing of their own jaw , the harpoon chew their food with such a relish that there wa a report to it . they dine like lord ; they fill their belli like indian ship all day load with spice . such portent appetit had queequeg and tashtego , that to fill out the vacanc made by the previou repast , often the pale dough - boy wa fain to bring on a great baron of salt - junk , seemingli quarri out of the solid ox . and if he were not live about it , if he did not go with a nimbl hop - skip - and - jump , then tashtego had an ungentlemanli way of acceler him by dart a fork at hi back , harpoon - wise . and onc daggoo , seiz with a sudden humor , assist dough - boy ' s memori by snatch him up bodili , and thrust hi head into a great empti wooden trencher , while tashtego , knife in hand , began lay out the circl preliminari to scalp him . He wa natur a veri nervou , shudder sort of littl fellow , thi bread - face steward ; the progeni of a bankrupt baker and a hospit nurs . and what with the stand spectacl of the black terrif ahab , and the period tumultu visit of these three savag , dough - boy ' s whole life wa one continu lip - quiver . commonli , after see the harpoon furnish with all thing they demand , he would escap from their clutch into hi littl pantri adjoin , and fear peep out at them through the blind of it door , till all wa over . It wa a sight to see queequeg seat over against tashtego , oppos hi file teeth to the indian ' s : crosswis to them , daggoo seat on the floor , for a bench would have brought hi hears - plume head to the low carlin ; at everi motion of hi coloss limb , make the low cabin framework to shake , as when an african eleph goe passeng in a ship . but for all thi , the great negro wa wonder abstemi , not to say dainti . It seem hardli possibl that by such compar small mouth he could keep up the vital diffus through so broad , baroni , and superb a person . but , doubtless , thi nobl savag fed strong and drank deep of the abound element of air ; and through hi dilat nostril snuf in the sublim life of the world . not by beef or by bread , are giant made or nourish . but queequeg , he had a mortal , barbar smack of the lip in eat -- an ugli sound enough -- so much so , that the trembl dough - boy almost look to see whether ani mark of teeth lurk in hi own lean arm . and when he would hear tashtego sing out for him to produc himself , that hi bone might be pick , the simpl - wit steward all but shatter the crockeri hang round him in the pantri , by hi sudden fit of the palsi . nor did the whetston which the harpoon carri in their pocket , for their lanc and other weapon ; and with which whetston , at dinner , they would ostentati sharpen their knive ; that grate sound did not at all tend to tranquil poor dough - boy . how could he forget that in hi island day , queequeg , for one , must certainli have been guilti of some murder , convivi indiscret . ala ! dough - boy ! hard fare the white waiter who wait upon cannib . not a napkin should he carri on hi arm , but a buckler . In good time , though , to hi great delight , the three salt - sea warrior would rise and depart ; to hi credul , fabl - monger ear , all their martial bone jingl in them at everi step , like moorish scimetar in scabbard . but , though these barbarian dine in the cabin , and nomin live there ; still , be anyth but sedentari in their habit , they were scarc ever in it except at mealtim , and just befor sleep - time , when they pass through it to their own peculiar quarter . In thi one matter , ahab seem no except to most american whale captain , who , as a set , rather inclin to the opinion that by right the ship ' s cabin belong to them ; and that it is by courtesi alon that anybodi els is , at ani time , permit there . So that , in real truth , the mate and harpoon of the pequod might more properli be said to have live out of the cabin than in it . for when they did enter it , it wa someth as a street - door enter a hous ; turn inward for a moment , onli to be turn out the next ; and , as a perman thing , resid in the open air . nor did they lose much herebi ; in the cabin wa no companionship ; social , ahab wa inaccess . though nomin includ in the censu of christendom , he wa still an alien to it . He live in the world , as the last of the grisli bear live in settl missouri . and as when spring and summer had depart , that wild logan of the wood , buri himself in the hollow of a tree , live out the winter there , suck hi own paw ; so , in hi inclement , howl old age , ahab ' s soul , shut up in the cave trunk of hi bodi , there fed upon the sullen paw of it gloom ! chapter 35 the mast - head . It wa dure the more pleasant weather , that in due rotat with the other seamen my first mast - head came round . In most american whalemen the mast - head are man almost simultan with the vessel ' s leav her port ; even though she may have fifteen thousand mile , and more , to sail ere reach her proper cruis ground . and if , after a three , four , or five year ' voyag she is draw nigh home with anyth empti in her -- say , an empti vial even -- then , her mast - head are kept man to the last ; and not till her skysail - pole sail in among the spire of the port , doe she altogeth relinquish the hope of captur one whale more . now , as the busi of stand mast - head , ashor or afloat , is a veri ancient and interest one , let us in some measur expati here . I take it , that the earliest stander of mast - head were the old egyptian ; becaus , in all my research , I find none prior to them . for though their progenitor , the builder of babel , must doubtless , by their tower , have intend to rear the loftiest mast - head in all asia , or africa either ; yet ( ere the final truck wa put to it ) as that great stone mast of their may be said to have gone by the board , in the dread gale of god ' s wrath ; therefor , we can not give these babel builder prioriti over the egyptian . and that the egyptian were a nation of mast - head stander , is an assert base upon the gener belief among archaeologist , that the first pyramid were found for astronom purpos : a theori singularli support by the peculiar stair - like format of all four side of those edific ; wherebi , with prodigi long uplift of their leg , those old astronom were wont to mount to the apex , and sing out for new star ; even as the look - out of a modern ship sing out for a sail , or a whale just bear in sight . In saint stylit , the famou christian hermit of old time , who built him a lofti stone pillar in the desert and spent the whole latter portion of hi life on it summit , hoist hi food from the ground with a tackl ; in him we have a remark instanc of a dauntless stander - of - mast - head ; who wa not to be driven from hi place by fog or frost , rain , hail , or sleet ; but valiantli face everyth out to the last , liter die at hi post . Of modern stander - of - mast - head we have but a lifeless set ; mere stone , iron , and bronz men ; who , though well capabl of face out a stiff gale , are still entir incompet to the busi of sing out upon discov ani strang sight . there is napoleon ; who , upon the top of the column of vendom , stand with arm fold , some one hundr and fifti feet in the air ; careless , now , who rule the deck below ; whether loui philipp , loui blanc , or loui the devil . great washington , too , stand high aloft on hi tower main - mast in baltimor , and like one of hercul ' pillar , hi column mark that point of human grandeur beyond which few mortal will go . admir nelson , also , on a capstan of gun - metal , stand hi mast - head in trafalgar squar ; and ever when most obscur by that london smoke , token is yet given that a hidden hero is there ; for where there is smoke , must be fire . but neither great washington , nor napoleon , nor nelson , will answer a singl hail from below , howev madli invok to befriend by their counsel the distract deck upon which they gaze ; howev it may be surmis , that their spirit penetr through the thick haze of the futur , and descri what shoal and what rock must be shun . It may seem unwarrant to coupl in ani respect the mast - head stander of the land with those of the sea ; but that in truth it is not so , is plainli evinc by an item for which obe maci , the sole historian of nantucket , stand account . the worthi obe tell us , that in the earli time of the whale fisheri , ere ship were regularli launch in pursuit of the game , the peopl of that island erect lofti spar along the sea - coast , to which the look - out ascend by mean of nail cleat , someth as fowl go upstair in a hen - hous . A few year ago thi same plan wa adopt by the bay whalemen of new zealand , who , upon descri the game , gave notic to the readi - man boat nigh the beach . but thi custom ha now becom obsolet ; turn we then to the one proper mast - head , that of a whale - ship at sea . the three mast - head are kept man from sun - rise to sun - set ; the seamen take their regular turn ( as at the helm ) , and reliev each other everi two hour . In the seren weather of the tropic it is exceedingli pleasant the mast - head ; nay , to a dreami medit man it is delight . there you stand , a hundr feet abov the silent deck , stride along the deep , as if the mast were gigant stilt , while beneath you and between your leg , as it were , swim the hugest monster of the sea , even as ship onc sail between the boot of the famou colossu at old rhode . there you stand , lost in the infinit seri of the sea , with noth ruffl but the wave . the tranc ship indol roll ; the drowsi trade wind blow ; everyth resolv you into languor . for the most part , in thi tropic whale life , a sublim unev invest you ; you hear no news ; read no gazett ; extra with startl account of commonplac never delud you into unnecessari excit ; you hear of no domest afflict ; bankrupt secur ; fall of stock ; are never troubl with the thought of what you shall have for dinner -- for all your meal for three year and more are snugli stow in cask , and your bill of fare is immut . In one of those southern whalesmen , on a long three or four year ' voyag , as often happen , the sum of the variou hour you spend at the mast - head would amount to sever entir month . and it is much to be deplor that the place to which you devot so consider a portion of the whole term of your natur life , should be so sadli destitut of anyth approach to a cosi inhabit , or adapt to breed a comfort local of feel , such as pertain to a bed , a hammock , a hears , a sentri box , a pulpit , a coach , or ani other of those small and snug contriv in which men temporarili isol themselv . your most usual point of perch is the head of the t ' gallant - mast , where you stand upon two thin parallel stick ( almost peculiar to whalemen ) call the t ' gallant cross - tree . here , toss about by the sea , the beginn feel about as cosi as he would stand on a bull ' s horn . To be sure , in cold weather you may carri your hous aloft with you , in the shape of a watch - coat ; but properli speak the thickest watch - coat is no more of a hous than the unclad bodi ; for as the soul is glu insid of it fleshi tabernacl , and can not freeli move about in it , nor even move out of it , without run great risk of perish ( like an ignor pilgrim cross the snowi alp in winter ) ; so a watch - coat is not so much of a hous as it is a mere envelop , or addit skin encas you . you can not put a shelf or chest of drawer in your bodi , and no more can you make a conveni closet of your watch - coat . concern all thi , it is much to be deplor that the mast - head of a southern whale ship are unprovid with those enviabl littl tent or pulpit , call crow ' S - nest , in which the look - out of a greenland whaler are protect from the inclement weather of the frozen sea . In the firesid narr of captain sleet , entitl `` A voyag among the iceberg , in quest of the greenland whale , and incident for the re - discoveri of the lost iceland coloni of old greenland ; '' in thi admir volum , all stander of mast - head are furnish with a charmingli circumstanti account of the then recent invent crow ' S - nest of the glacier , which wa the name of captain sleet ' s good craft . He call it the sleet ' S crow ' S - nest , in honour of himself ; he be the origin inventor and patente , and free from all ridicul fals delicaci , and hold that if we call our own children after our own name ( we father be the origin inventor and patente ) , so likewis should we denomin after ourselv ani other apparatu we may beget . In shape , the sleet ' s crow ' s - nest is someth like a larg tierc or pipe ; it is open abov , howev , where it is furnish with a movabl side - screen to keep to windward of your head in a hard gale . be fix on the summit of the mast , you ascend into it through a littl trap - hatch in the bottom . On the after side , or side next the stern of the ship , is a comfort seat , with a locker underneath for umbrella , comfort , and coat . In front is a leather rack , in which to keep your speak trumpet , pipe , telescop , and other nautic conveni . when captain sleet in person stood hi mast - head in thi crow ' s - nest of hi , he tell us that he alway had a rifl with him ( also fix in the rack ) , togeth with a powder flask and shot , for the purpos of pop off the stray narwhal , or vagrant sea unicorn infest those water ; for you can not success shoot at them from the deck owe to the resist of the water , but to shoot down upon them is a veri differ thing . now , it wa plainli a labor of love for captain sleet to describ , as he doe , all the littl detail conveni of hi crow ' s - nest ; but though he so enlarg upon mani of these , and though he treat us to a veri scientif account of hi experi in thi crow ' s - nest , with a small compass he kept there for the purpos of counteract the error result from what is call the `` local attract `` of all binnacl magnet ; an error ascrib to the horizont vicin of the iron in the ship ' s plank , and in the glacier ' s case , perhap , to there have been so mani broken - down blacksmith among her crew ; I say , that though the captain is veri discreet and scientif here , yet , for all hi learn `` binnacl deviat , '' `` azimuth compass observ , '' and `` approxim error , '' he know veri well , captain sleet , that he wa not so much immers in those profound magnet medit , as to fail be attract occasion toward that well replenish littl case - bottl , so nice tuck in on one side of hi crow ' s nest , within easi reach of hi hand . though , upon the whole , I greatli admir and even love the brave , the honest , and learn captain ; yet I take it veri ill of him that he should so utterli ignor that case - bottl , see what a faith friend and comfort it must have been , while with mitten finger and hood head he wa studi the mathemat aloft there in that bird ' s nest within three or four perch of the pole . but if we southern whale - fisher are not so snugli hous aloft as captain sleet and hi greenlandmen were ; yet that disadvantag is greatli counter - balanc by the wide contrast seren of those seduct sea in which we south fisher mostli float . for one , I use to loung up the rig veri leisur , rest in the top to have a chat with queequeg , or ani one els off duti whom I might find there ; then ascend a littl way further , and throw a lazi leg over the top - sail yard , take a preliminari view of the wateri pastur , and so at last mount to my ultim destin . let me make a clean breast of it here , and frankli admit that I kept but sorri guard . with the problem of the univers revolv in me , how could I -- be left complet to myself at such a thought - engend altitud -- how could I but lightli hold my oblig to observ all whale - ship ' stand order , `` keep your weather eye open , and sing out everi time . '' and let me in thi place movingli admonish you , ye ship - owner of nantucket ! bewar of enlist in your vigil fisheri ani lad with lean brow and hollow eye ; given to unseason medit ; and who offer to ship with the phaedon instead of bowditch in hi head . bewar of such an one , I say ; your whale must be seen befor they can be kill ; and thi sunken - eye young platonist will tow you ten wake round the world , and never make you one pint of sperm the richer . nor are these monit at all unneed . for nowaday , the whale - fisheri furnish an asylum for mani romant , melancholi , and absent - mind young men , disgust with the cark care of earth , and seek sentiment in tar and blubber . child harold not unfrequ perch himself upon the mast - head of some luckless disappoint whale - ship , and in moodi phrase ejacul : -- `` roll on , thou deep and dark blue ocean , roll ! ten thousand blubber - hunter sweep over thee in vain . '' veri often do the captain of such ship take those absent - mind young philosoph to task , upbraid them with not feel suffici `` interest `` in the voyag ; half - hint that they are so hopelessli lost to all honour ambit , as that in their secret soul they would rather not see whale than otherwis . but all in vain ; those young platonist have a notion that their vision is imperfect ; they are short - sight ; what use , then , to strain the visual nerv ? they have left their opera - glass at home . `` whi , thou monkey , '' said a harpoon to one of these lad , `` we ' ve been cruis now hard upon three year , and thou hast not rais a whale yet . whale are scarc as hen ' s teeth whenev thou art up here . '' perhap they were ; or perhap there might have been shoal of them in the far horizon ; but lull into such an opium - like listless of vacant , unconsci reveri is thi absent - mind youth by the blend cadenc of wave with thought , that at last he lose hi ident ; take the mystic ocean at hi feet for the visibl imag of that deep , blue , bottomless soul , pervad mankind and natur ; and everi strang , half - seen , glide , beauti thing that elud him ; everi dimli - discov , upris fin of some undiscern form , seem to him the embodi of those elus thought that onli peopl the soul by continu flit through it . In thi enchant mood , thi spirit ebb away to whenc it came ; becom diffus through time and space ; like crammer ' s sprinkl pantheist ash , form at last a part of everi shore the round globe over . there is no life in thee , now , except that rock life impart by a gentli roll ship ; by her , borrow from the sea ; by the sea , from the inscrut tide of god . but while thi sleep , thi dream is on ye , move your foot or hand an inch ; slip your hold at all ; and your ident come back in horror . over descartian vortic you hover . and perhap , at mid - day , in the fairest weather , with one half - throttl shriek you drop through that transpar air into the summer sea , no more to rise for ever . heed it well , ye pantheist ! chapter 36 the quarter - deck . ( enter ahab : then , all ) It wa not a great while after the affair of the pipe , that one morn shortli after breakfast , ahab , as wa hi wont , ascend the cabin - gangway to the deck . there most sea - captain usual walk at that hour , as countri gentlemen , after the same meal , take a few turn in the garden . soon hi steadi , ivori stride wa heard , as to and fro he pace hi old round , upon plank so familiar to hi tread , that they were all over dent , like geolog stone , with the peculiar mark of hi walk . did you fixedli gaze , too , upon that rib and dent brow ; there also , you would see still stranger foot - print -- the foot - print of hi one unsleep , ever - pace thought . but on the occas in question , those dent look deeper , even as hi nervou step that morn left a deeper mark . and , so full of hi thought wa ahab , that at everi uniform turn that he made , now at the main - mast and now at the binnacl , you could almost see that thought turn in him as he turn , and pace in him as he pace ; so complet possess him , inde , that it all but seem the inward mould of everi outer movement . `` D ' ye mark him , flask ? '' whisper stubb ; `` the chick that ' s in him peck the shell . ' twill soon be out . '' the hour wore on ; -- ahab now shut up within hi cabin ; anon , pace the deck , with the same intens bigotri of purpos in hi aspect . It drew near the close of day . suddenli he came to a halt by the bulwark , and insert hi bone leg into the auger - hole there , and with one hand grasp a shroud , he order starbuck to send everybodi aft . `` sir ! '' said the mate , astonish at an order seldom or never given on ship - board except in some extraordinari case . `` send everybodi aft , '' repeat ahab . `` mast - head , there ! come down ! '' when the entir ship ' s compani were assembl , and with curiou and not wholli unapprehens face , were eye him , for he look not unlik the weather horizon when a storm is come up , ahab , after rapidli glanc over the bulwark , and then dart hi eye among the crew , start from hi standpoint ; and as though not a soul were nigh him resum hi heavi turn upon the deck . with bent head and half - slouch hat he continu to pace , unmind of the wonder whisper among the men ; till stubb cautious whisper to flask , that ahab must have summon them there for the purpos of wit a pedestrian feat . but thi did not last long . vehement paus , he cri : -- `` what do ye do when ye see a whale , men ? '' `` sing out for him ! '' wa the impuls rejoind from a score of club voic . `` good ! '' cri ahab , with a wild approv in hi tone ; observ the hearti anim into which hi unexpect question had so magnet thrown them . `` and what do ye next , men ? '' `` lower away , and after him ! '' `` and what tune is it ye pull to , men ? '' `` A dead whale or a stove boat ! '' more and more strang and fierc glad and approv , grew the counten of the old man at everi shout ; while the marin began to gaze curious at each other , as if marvel how it wa that they themselv becam so excit at such seemingli purposeless question . but , they were all eager again , as ahab , now half - revolv in hi pivot - hole , with one hand reach high up a shroud , and tightli , almost convuls grasp it , address them thu : -- `` all ye mast - header have befor now heard me give order about a white whale . look ye ! d ' ye see thi spanish ounc of gold ? '' -- hold up a broad bright coin to the sun -- '' it is a sixteen dollar piec , men . D ' ye see it ? Mr . starbuck , hand me yon top - maul . '' while the mate wa get the hammer , ahab , without speak , wa slowli rub the gold piec against the skirt of hi jacket , as if to heighten it lustr , and without use ani word wa meanwhil lowli hum to himself , produc a sound so strang muffl and inarticul that it seem the mechan hum of the wheel of hi vital in him . receiv the top - maul from starbuck , he advanc toward the main - mast with the hammer uplift in one hand , exhibit the gold with the other , and with a high rais voic exclaim : `` whosoev of ye rais me a white - head whale with a wrinkl brow and a crook jaw ; whosoev of ye rais me that white - head whale , with three hole punctur in hi starboard fluke -- look ye , whosoev of ye rais me that same white whale , he shall have thi gold ounc , my boy ! '' `` huzza ! huzza ! '' cri the seamen , as with swing tarpaulin they hail the act of nail the gold to the mast . `` It ' s a white whale , I say , '' resum ahab , as he threw down the topmaul : `` a white whale . skin your eye for him , men ; look sharp for white water ; if ye see but a bubbl , sing out . '' all thi while tashtego , daggoo , and queequeg had look on with even more intens interest and surpris than the rest , and at the mention of the wrinkl brow and crook jaw they had start as if each wa separ touch by some specif recollect . `` captain ahab , '' said tashtego , `` that white whale must be the same that some call mobi dick . '' `` mobi dick ? '' shout ahab . `` Do ye know the white whale then , tash ? '' `` doe he fan - tail a littl curiou , sir , befor he goe down ? '' said the gay - header deliber . `` and ha he a curiou spout , too , '' said daggoo , `` veri bushi , even for a parmacetti , and mighti quick , captain ahab ? '' `` and he have one , two , three -- oh ! good mani iron in him hide , too , captain , '' cri queequeg disjointedli , `` all twisk - tee be - twisk , like him -- him -- '' falter hard for a word , and screw hi hand round and round as though uncork a bottl -- '' like him -- him -- '' `` corkscrew ! '' cri ahab , `` aye , queequeg , the harpoon lie all twist and wrench in him ; aye , daggoo , hi spout is a big one , like a whole shock of wheat , and white as a pile of our nantucket wool after the great annual sheep - shear ; aye , tashtego , and he fan - tail like a split jib in a squall . death and devil ! men , it is mobi dick ye have seen -- mobi dick -- mobi dick ! '' `` captain ahab , '' said starbuck , who , with stubb and flask , had thu far been eye hi superior with increas surpris , but at last seem struck with a thought which somewhat explain all the wonder . `` captain ahab , I have heard of mobi dick -- but it wa not mobi dick that took off thi leg ? '' `` who told thee that ? '' cri ahab ; then paus , `` aye , starbuck ; aye , my hearti all round ; it wa mobi dick that dismast me ; mobi dick that brought me to thi dead stump I stand on now . aye , aye , '' he shout with a terrif , loud , anim sob , like that of a heart - stricken moos ; `` aye , aye ! it wa that accurs white whale that raze me ; made a poor peg lubber of me for ever and a day ! '' then toss both arm , with measureless imprec he shout out : `` aye , aye ! and I ' ll chase him round good hope , and round the horn , and round the norway maelstrom , and round perdit ' s flame befor I give him up . and thi is what ye have ship for , men ! to chase that white whale on both side of land , and over all side of earth , till he spout black blood and roll fin out . what say ye , men , will ye splice hand on it , now ? I think ye do look brave . '' `` aye , aye ! '' shout the harpoon and seamen , run closer to the excit old man : `` A sharp eye for the white whale ; a sharp lanc for mobi dick ! '' `` god bless ye , '' he seem to half sob and half shout . `` god bless ye , men . steward ! go draw the great measur of grog . but what ' s thi long face about , Mr . starbuck ; wilt thou not chase the white whale ? art not game for mobi dick ? '' `` I am game for hi crook jaw , and for the jaw of death too , captain ahab , if it fairli come in the way of the busi we follow ; but I came here to hunt whale , not my command ' s vengeanc . how mani barrel will thi vengeanc yield thee even if thou gettest it , captain ahab ? it will not fetch thee much in our nantucket market . '' `` nantucket market ! hoot ! but come closer , starbuck ; thou requirest a littl lower layer . If money ' s to be the measur , man , and the account have comput their great count - hous the globe , by girdl it with guinea , one to everi three part of an inch ; then , let me tell thee , that my vengeanc will fetch a great premium here ! '' `` He smite hi chest , '' whisper stubb , `` what ' s that for ? methink it ring most vast , but hollow . '' `` vengeanc on a dumb brute ! '' cri starbuck , `` that simpli smote thee from blindest instinct ! mad ! To be enrag with a dumb thing , captain ahab , seem blasphem . '' `` hark ye yet again -- the littl lower layer . all visibl object , man , are but as pasteboard mask . but in each event -- in the live act , the undoubt deed -- there , some unknown but still reason thing put forth the mould of it featur from behind the unreason mask . If man will strike , strike through the mask ! how can the prison reach outsid except by thrust through the wall ? To me , the white whale is that wall , shove near to me . sometim I think there ' s naught beyond . but ' ti enough . He task me ; he heap me ; I see in him outrag strength , with an inscrut malic sinew it . that inscrut thing is chiefli what I hate ; and be the white whale agent , or be the white whale princip , I will wreak that hate upon him . talk not to me of blasphemi , man ; I ' d strike the sun if it insult me . for could the sun do that , then could I do the other ; sinc there is ever a sort of fair play herein , jealousi presid over all creation . but not my master , man , is even that fair play . who ' s over me ? truth hath no confin . take off thine eye ! more intoler than fiend ' glare is a doltish stare ! So , so ; thou reddenest and palest ; my heat ha melt thee to anger - glow . but look ye , starbuck , what is said in heat , that thing unsay itself . there are men from whom warm word are small indign . I meant not to incens thee . let it go . look ! see yonder turkish cheek of spot tawn -- live , breath pictur paint by the sun . the pagan leopard -- the unreck and unworship thing , that live ; and seek , and give no reason for the torrid life they feel ! the crew , man , the crew ! are they not one and all with ahab , in thi matter of the whale ? see stubb ! he laugh ! see yonder chilian ! he snort to think of it . stand up amid the gener hurrican , thi one tost sapl can not , starbuck ! and what is it ? reckon it . ' ti but to help strike a fin ; no wondrou feat for starbuck . what is it more ? from thi one poor hunt , then , the best lanc out of all nantucket , sure he will not hang back , when everi foremast - hand ha clutch a whetston ? Ah ! constrain seiz thee ; I see ! the billow lift thee ! speak , but speak ! -- aye , aye ! thi silenc , then , that voic thee . ( asid ) someth shot from my dilat nostril , he ha inhal it in hi lung . starbuck now is mine ; can not oppos me now , without rebellion . '' `` god keep me ! -- keep us all ! '' murmur starbuck , lowli . but in hi joy at the enchant , tacit acquiesc of the mate , ahab did not hear hi forebod invoc ; nor yet the low laugh from the hold ; nor yet the presag vibrat of the wind in the cordag ; nor yet the hollow flap of the sail against the mast , as for a moment their heart sank in . for again starbuck ' s downcast eye light up with the stubborn of life ; the subterranean laugh die away ; the wind blew on ; the sail fill out ; the ship heav and roll as befor . Ah , ye admonit and warn ! whi stay ye not when ye come ? but rather are ye predict than warn , ye shadow ! yet not so much predict from without , as verif of the forego thing within . for with littl extern to constrain us , the innermost necess in our be , these still drive us on . `` the measur ! the measur ! '' cri ahab . receiv the brim pewter , and turn to the harpoon , he order them to produc their weapon . then rang them befor him near the capstan , with their harpoon in their hand , while hi three mate stood at hi side with their lanc , and the rest of the ship ' s compani form a circl round the group ; he stood for an instant searchingli eye everi man of hi crew . but those wild eye met hi , as the bloodshot eye of the prairi wolv meet the eye of their leader , ere he rush on at their head in the trail of the bison ; but , ala ! onli to fall into the hidden snare of the indian . `` drink and pass ! '' he cri , hand the heavi charg flagon to the nearest seaman . `` the crew alon now drink . round with it , round ! short draught -- long swallow , men ; ' ti hot as satan ' s hoof . So , so ; it goe round excel . It spiral in ye ; fork out at the serpent - snap eye . well done ; almost drain . that way it went , thi way it come . hand it me -- here ' s a hollow ! men , ye seem the year ; so brim life is gulp and gone . steward , refil ! `` attend now , my brave . I have muster ye all round thi capstan ; and ye mate , flank me with your lanc ; and ye harpoon , stand there with your iron ; and ye , stout marin , ring me in , that I may in some sort reviv a nobl custom of my fisherman father befor me . O men , you will yet see that -- Ha ! boy , come back ? bad penni come not sooner . hand it me . whi , now , thi pewter had run brim again , were ' t not thou St . vitu ' imp -- away , thou agu ! `` advanc , ye mate ! cross your lanc full befor me . well done ! let me touch the axi . '' So say , with extend arm , he grasp the three level , radiat lanc at their cross centr ; while so do , suddenli and nervous twitch them ; meanwhil , glanc intent from starbuck to stubb ; from stubb to flask . It seem as though , by some nameless , interior volit , he would fain have shock into them the same fieri emot accumul within the leyden jar of hi own magnet life . the three mate quail befor hi strong , sustain , and mystic aspect . stubb and flask look sideway from him ; the honest eye of starbuck fell downright . `` In vain ! '' cri ahab ; `` but , mayb , ' ti well . for did ye three but onc take the full - forc shock , then mine own electr thing , that had perhap expir from out me . perchanc , too , it would have drop ye dead . perchanc ye need it not . down lanc ! and now , ye mate , I do appoint ye three cupbear to my three pagan kinsmen there -- yon three most honour gentlemen and noblemen , my valiant harpoon . disdain the task ? what , when the great pope wash the feet of beggar , use hi tiara for ewer ? Oh , my sweet cardin ! your own condescens , that shall bend ye to it . I do not order ye ; ye will it . cut your seiz and draw the pole , ye harpoon ! '' silent obey the order , the three harpoon now stood with the detach iron part of their harpoon , some three feet long , held , barb up , befor him . `` stab me not with that keen steel ! cant them ; cant them over ! know ye not the goblet end ? turn up the socket ! So , so ; now , ye cup - bearer , advanc . the iron ! take them ; hold them while I fill ! '' forthwith , slowli go from one offic to the other , he brim the harpoon socket with the fieri water from the pewter . `` now , three to three , ye stand . commend the murder chalic ! bestow them , ye who are now made parti to thi indissolubl leagu . Ha ! starbuck ! but the deed is done ! yon ratifi sun now wait to sit upon it . drink , ye harpoon ! drink and swear , ye men that man the death whaleboat ' s bow -- death to mobi dick ! god hunt us all , if we do not hunt mobi dick to hi death ! '' the long , barb steel goblet were lift ; and to cri and maledict against the white whale , the spirit were simultan quaf down with a hiss . starbuck pale , and turn , and shiver . onc more , and final , the replenish pewter went the round among the frantic crew ; when , wave hi free hand to them , they all dispers ; and ahab retir within hi cabin . chapter 37 sunset . the cabin ; BY the stern window ; ahab sit alon , and gaze out . I leav a white and turbid wake ; pale water , paler cheek , where ' er I sail . the enviou billow sidelong swell to whelm my track ; let them ; but first I pass . yonder , by ever - brim goblet ' s rim , the warm wave blush like wine . the gold brow plumb the blue . the diver sun -- slow dive from noon -- goe down ; my soul mount up ! she weari with her endless hill . Is , then , the crown too heavi that I wear ? thi iron crown of lombardi . yet is it bright with mani a gem ; I the wearer , see not it far flash ; but darkli feel that I wear that , that dazzlingli confound . ' ti iron -- that I know -- not gold . ' ti split , too -- that I feel ; the jag edg gall me so , my brain seem to beat against the solid metal ; aye , steel skull , mine ; the sort that need no helmet in the most brain - batter fight ! dri heat upon my brow ? Oh ! time wa , when as the sunris nobli spur me , so the sunset sooth . No more . thi love light , it light not me ; all loveli is anguish to me , sinc I can ne ' er enjoy . gift with the high percept , I lack the low , enjoy power ; damn , most subtli and most malignantli ! damn in the midst of paradis ! good night -- good night ! ( wave hi hand , HE move from the window . ) ' twa not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cog circl fit into all their variou wheel , and they revolv . Or , if you will , like so mani ant - hill of powder , they all stand befor me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire other , the match itself must need be wast ! what I ' ve dare , I ' ve will ; and what I ' ve will , I ' ll do ! they think me mad -- starbuck doe ; but I ' m demoniac , I am mad madden ! that wild mad that ' s onli calm to comprehend itself ! the propheci wa that I should be dismemb ; and -- aye ! I lost thi leg . I now prophesi that I will dismemb my dismember . now , then , be the prophet and the fulfil one . that ' s more than ye , ye great god , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - player , ye pugilist , ye deaf burk and blind bendigo ! I will not say as schoolboy do to bulli -- take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knock me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . come forth from behind your cotton bag ! I have no long gun to reach ye . come , ahab ' s compliment to ye ; come and see if ye can swerv me . swerv me ? ye can not swerv me , els ye swerv yourselv ! man ha ye there . swerv me ? the path to my fix purpos is laid with iron rail , whereon my soul is groov to run . over unsound gorg , through the rifl heart of mountain , under torrent ' bed , unerringli I rush ! naught ' s an obstacl , naught ' s an angl to the iron way ! chapter 38 dusk . BY the mainmast ; starbuck lean against IT . My soul is more than match ; she ' s overman ; and by a madman ! insuffer sting , that saniti should ground arm on such a field ! but he drill deep down , and blast all my reason out of me ! I think I see hi impiou end ; but feel that I must help him to it . will I , nill I , the ineff thing ha tie me to him ; tow me with a cabl I have no knife to cut . horribl old man ! who ' s over him , he cri ; -- aye , he would be a democrat to all abov ; look , how he lord it over all below ! Oh ! I plainli see my miser offic , -- to obey , rebel ; and wors yet , to hate with touch of piti ! for in hi eye I read some lurid woe would shrivel me up , had I it . yet is there hope . time and tide flow wide . the hate whale ha the round wateri world to swim in , as the small gold - fish ha it glassi globe . hi heaven - insult purpos , god may wedg asid . I would up heart , were it not like lead . but my whole clock ' s run down ; my heart the all - control weight , I have no key to lift again . [ A burst OF revelri from the forecastl . ] Oh , god ! to sail with such a heathen crew that have small touch of human mother in them ! whelp somewher by the sharkish sea . the white whale is their demigorgon . hark ! the infern orgi ! that revelri is forward ! mark the unfalt silenc aft ! methink it pictur life . foremost through the sparkl sea shoot on the gay , embattl , banter bow , but onli to drag dark ahab after it , where he brood within hi sternward cabin , build over the dead water of the wake , and further on , hunt by it wolfish gurgl . the long howl thrill me through ! peac ! ye revel , and set the watch ! Oh , life ! ' ti in an hour like thi , with soul beat down and held to knowledg , -- as wild , untutor thing are forc to feed -- Oh , life ! ' ti now that I do feel the latent horror in thee ! but ' ti not me ! that horror ' s out of me ! and with the soft feel of the human in me , yet will I tri to fight ye , ye grim , phantom futur ! stand by me , hold me , bind me , O ye bless influenc ! chapter 39 first night watch . fore - top . ( stubb solu , and mend A brace . ) Ha ! ha ! ha ! ha ! hem ! clear my throat ! -- I ' ve been think over it ever sinc , and that ha , ha ' s the final consequ . whi so ? becaus a laugh ' s the wisest , easiest answer to all that ' s queer ; and come what will , one comfort ' s alway left -- that unfail comfort is , it ' s all predestin . I heard not all hi talk with starbuck ; but to my poor eye starbuck then look someth as I the other even felt . Be sure the old mogul ha fix him , too . I twig it , knew it ; had had the gift , might readili have prophesi it -- for when I clap my eye upon hi skull I saw it . well , stubb , wise stubb -- that ' s my titl -- well , stubb , what of it , stubb ? here ' s a carcas . I know not all that may be come , but be it what it will , I ' ll go to it laugh . such a waggish leer as lurk in all your horribl ! I feel funni . Fa , la ! lirra , skirra ! what ' s my juici littl pear at home do now ? cri it eye out ? -- give a parti to the last arriv harpoon , I dare say , gay as a frigat ' s pennant , and so am I -- fa , la ! lirra , skirra ! Oh -- We ' ll drink to - night with heart as light , To love , as gay and fleet As bubbl that swim , on the beaker ' s brim , and break on the lip while meet . A brave stave that -- who call ? Mr . starbuck ? aye , aye , sir -- ( asid ) he ' s my superior , he ha hi too , if I ' m not mistaken . -- aye , aye , sir , just through with thi job -- come . chapter 40 midnight , forecastl . harpoon and sailor . ( foresail rise and discov the watch stand , loung , lean , and ly IN variou attitud , all sing IN choru . ) farewel and adieu to you , spanish ladi ! farewel and adieu to you , ladi of spain ! our captain ' s command . -- 1st nantucket sailor . Oh , boy , don ' t be sentiment ; it ' s bad for the digest ! take a tonic , follow me ! ( sing , and all follow ) our captain stood upon the deck , A spi - glass in hi hand , A view of those gallant whale that blew at everi strand . Oh , your tub in your boat , my boy , and by your brace stand , and we ' ll have one of those fine whale , hand , boy , over hand ! So , be cheeri , my lad ! may your heart never fail ! while the bold harpoon is strike the whale ! mate ' S voic from the quarter - deck . eight bell there , forward ! 2nd nantucket sailor . avast the choru ! eight bell there ! d ' ye hear , bell - boy ? strike the bell eight , thou pip ! thou blackl ! and let me call the watch . I ' ve the sort of mouth for that -- the hogshead mouth . So , so , ( thrust hi head down the scuttl , ) star - bo - l - e - e - n - s , a - h - o - y ! eight bell there below ! tumbl up ! dutch sailor . grand snooz to - night , mati ; fat night for that . I mark thi in our old mogul ' s wine ; it ' s quit as deaden to some as fillip to other . We sing ; they sleep -- aye , lie down there , like ground - tier butt . At ' em again ! there , take thi copper - pump , and hail ' em through it . tell ' em to avast dream of their lass . tell ' em it ' s the resurrect ; they must kiss their last , and come to judgment . that ' s the way -- that ' S it ; thi throat ain ' t spoil with eat amsterdam butter . french sailor . hist , boy ! let ' s have a jig or two befor we ride to anchor in blanket bay . what say ye ? there come the other watch . stand by all leg ! pip ! littl pip ! hurrah with your tambourin ! pip . ( sulki and sleepi ) don ' t know where it is . french sailor . beat thi belli , then , and wag thi ear . jig it , men , I say ; merri ' s the word ; hurrah ! damn me , won ' t you danc ? form , now , indian - file , and gallop into the doubl - shuffl ? throw yourselv ! leg ! leg ! iceland sailor . I don ' t like your floor , mati ; it ' s too springi to my tast . I ' m use to ice - floor . I ' m sorri to throw cold water on the subject ; but excus me . maltes sailor . Me too ; where ' s your girl ? who but a fool would take hi left hand by hi right , and say to himself , how d ' ye do ? partner ! I must have partner ! sicilian sailor . aye ; girl and a green ! -- then I ' ll hop with ye ; yea , turn grasshopp ! long - island sailor . well , well , ye sulki , there ' s plenti more of us . hoe corn when you may , say I . all leg go to harvest soon . Ah ! here come the music ; now for it ! azor sailor . ( ascend , and pitch the tambourin UP the scuttl . ) here you are , pip ; and there ' s the windlass - bitt ; up you mount ! now , boy ! ( the half OF them danc TO the tambourin ; some GO below ; some sleep OR lie among the coil OF rig . oath A - plenti . ) azor sailor . ( danc ) Go it , pip ! bang it , bell - boy ! rig it , dig it , stig it , quig it , bell - boy ! make fire - fli ; break the jingler ! pip . jingler , you say ? -- there goe anoth , drop off ; I pound it so . china sailor . rattl thi teeth , then , and pound away ; make a pagoda of thyself . french sailor . merri - mad ! hold up thi hoop , pip , till I jump through it ! split jib ! tear yourselv ! tashtego . ( quietli smoke ) that ' s a white man ; he call that fun : humph ! I save my sweat . old manx sailor . I wonder whether those jolli lad bethink them of what they are danc over . I ' ll danc over your grave , I will -- that ' s the bitterest threat of your night - women , that beat head - wind round corner . O christ ! to think of the green navi and the green - skull crew ! well , well ; belik the whole world ' s a ball , as you scholar have it ; and so ' ti right to make one ballroom of it . danc on , lad , you ' re young ; I wa onc . 3D nantucket sailor . spell oh ! -- whew ! thi is wors than pull after whale in a calm -- give us a whiff , tash . ( they ceas danc , and gather IN cluster . meantim the ski darken -- the wind rise . ) lascar sailor . By brahma ! boy , it ' ll be dous sail soon . the sky - born , high - tide gang turn to wind ! thou showest thi black brow , seeva ! maltes sailor . ( reclin and shake hi cap . ) It ' s the wave -- the snow ' s cap turn to jig it now . they ' ll shake their tassel soon . now would all the wave were women , then I ' d go drown , and chasse with them evermor ! there ' s naught so sweet on earth -- heaven may not match it ! -- as those swift glanc of warm , wild bosom in the danc , when the over - arbor arm hide such ripe , burst grape . sicilian sailor . ( reclin . ) tell me not of it ! hark ye , lad -- fleet interlac of the limb -- lith sway -- coy -- flutter ! lip ! heart ! hip ! all graze : unceas touch and go ! not tast , observ ye , els come satieti . Eh , pagan ? ( nudg . ) tahitan sailor . ( reclin ON A mat . ) hail , holi naked of our danc girl ! -- the heeva - heeva ! Ah ! low veil , high palm tahiti ! I still rest me on thi mat , but the soft soil ha slid ! I saw thee woven in the wood , my mat ! green the first day I brought ye thenc ; now worn and wilt quit . Ah me ! -- not thou nor I can bear the chang ! how then , if so be transplant to yon sky ? hear I the roar stream from pirohite ' s peak of spear , when they leap down the crag and drown the villag ? -- the blast ! the blast ! Up , spine , and meet it ! ( leap TO hi feet . ) portugues sailor . how the sea roll swash ' gainst the side ! stand by for reef , hearti ! the wind are just cross sword , pell - mell they ' ll go lung present . danish sailor . crack , crack , old ship ! so long as thou crackest , thou holdest ! well done ! the mate there hold ye to it stiffli . He ' s no more afraid than the isl fort at cattegat , put there to fight the baltic with storm - lash gun , on which the sea - salt cake ! 4th nantucket sailor . He ha hi order , mind ye that . I heard old ahab tell him he must alway kill a squall , someth as they burst a waterspout with a pistol -- fire your ship right into it ! english sailor . blood ! but that old man ' s a grand old cove ! We are the lad to hunt him up hi whale ! all . aye ! aye ! old manx sailor . how the three pine shake ! pine are the hardest sort of tree to live when shift to ani other soil , and here there ' s none but the crew ' s curs clay . steadi , helmsman ! steadi . thi is the sort of weather when brave heart snap ashor , and keel hull split at sea . our captain ha hi birthmark ; look yonder , boy , there ' s anoth in the sky -- lurid - like , ye see , all els pitch black . daggoo . what of that ? who ' s afraid of black ' s afraid of me ! I ' m quarri out of it ! spanish sailor . ( asid . ) He want to bulli , ah ! -- the old grudg make me touchi ( advanc . ) aye , harpoon , thi race is the undeni dark side of mankind -- devilish dark at that . No offenc . daggoo ( grimli ) . none . ST . jago ' S sailor . that spaniard ' s mad or drunk . but that can ' t be , or els in hi one case our old mogul ' s fire - water are somewhat long in work . 5th nantucket sailor . what ' s that I saw -- lightn ? ye . spanish sailor . No ; daggoo show hi teeth . daggoo ( spring ) . swallow thine , mannikin ! white skin , white liver ! spanish sailor ( meet him ) . knife thee heartili ! big frame , small spirit ! all . A row ! a row ! a row ! tashtego ( with A whiff ) . A row a ' low , and a row aloft -- god and men -- both brawler ! humph ! belfast sailor . A row ! arrah a row ! the virgin be bless , a row ! plung in with ye ! english sailor . fair play ! snatch the spaniard ' s knife ! A ring , a ring ! old manx sailor . readi form . there ! the ring horizon . In that ring cain struck abel . sweet work , right work ! No ? whi then , god , mad ' st thou the ring ? mate ' S voic from the quarter - deck . hand by the halyard ! in top - gallant sail ! stand by to reef topsail ! all . the squall ! the squall ! jump , my jolli ! ( they scatter . ) pip ( shrink under the windlass ) . jolli ? lord help such jolli ! crish , crash ! there goe the jib - stay ! blang - whang ! god ! duck lower , pip , here come the royal yard ! It ' s wors than be in the whirl wood , the last day of the year ! who ' d go climb after chestnut now ? but there they go , all curs , and here I don ' t . fine prospect to ' em ; they ' re on the road to heaven . hold on hard ! jimmini , what a squall ! but those chap there are wors yet -- they are your white squall , they . white squall ? white whale , shirr ! shirr ! here have I heard all their chat just now , and the white whale -- shirr ! shirr ! -- but spoken of onc ! and onli thi even -- it make me jingl all over like my tambourin -- that anaconda of an old man swore ' em in to hunt him ! Oh , thou big white god aloft there somewher in yon dark , have merci on thi small black boy down here ; preserv him from all men that have no bowel to feel fear ! chapter 41 mobi dick . I , ishmael , wa one of that crew ; my shout had gone up with the rest ; my oath had been weld with their ; and stronger I shout , and more did I hammer and clinch my oath , becaus of the dread in my soul . A wild , mystic , sympathet feel wa in me ; ahab ' s quenchless feud seem mine . with greedi ear I learn the histori of that murder monster against whom I and all the other had taken our oath of violenc and reveng . for some time past , though at interv onli , the unaccompani , seclud white whale had haunt those uncivil sea mostli frequent by the sperm whale fishermen . but not all of them knew of hi exist ; onli a few of them , compar , had knowingli seen him ; while the number who as yet had actual and knowingli given battl to him , wa small inde . for , owe to the larg number of whale - cruiser ; the disorderli way they were sprinkl over the entir wateri circumfer , mani of them adventur push their quest along solitari latitud , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encount a singl news - tell sail of ani sort ; the inordin length of each separ voyag ; the irregular of the time of sail from home ; all these , with other circumst , direct and indirect , long obstruct the spread through the whole world - wide whale - fleet of the special individu tide concern mobi dick . It wa hardli to be doubt , that sever vessel report to have encount , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a sperm whale of uncommon magnitud and malign , which whale , after do great mischief to hi assail , had complet escap them ; to some mind it wa not an unfair presumpt , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than mobi dick . yet as of late the sperm whale fisheri had been mark by variou and not unfrequ instanc of great feroc , cun , and malic in the monster attack ; therefor it wa , that those who by accid ignorantli gave battl to mobi dick ; such hunter , perhap , for the most part , were content to ascrib the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the peril of the sperm whale fisheri at larg , than to the individu caus . In that way , mostli , the disastr encount between ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularli regard . and as for those who , previous hear of the white whale , by chanc caught sight of him ; in the begin of the thing they had everi one of them , almost , as boldli and fearlessli lower for him , as for ani other whale of that speci . but at length , such calam did ensu in these assault -- not restrict to sprain wrist and ankl , broken limb , or devour amput -- but fatal to the last degre of fatal ; those repeat disastr repuls , all accumul and pile their terror upon mobi dick ; those thing had gone far to shake the fortitud of mani brave hunter , to whom the stori of the white whale had eventu come . nor did wild rumor of all sort fail to exagger , and still the more horrifi the true histori of these deadli encount . for not onli do fabul rumor natur grow out of the veri bodi of all surpris terribl event , -- as the smitten tree give birth to it fungi ; but , in maritim life , far more than in that of terra firma , wild rumor abound , wherev there is ani adequ realiti for them to cling to . and as the sea surpass the land in thi matter , so the whale fisheri surpass everi other sort of maritim life , in the wonder and fear of the rumor which sometim circul there . for not onli are whalemen as a bodi unexempt from that ignor and superstiti hereditari to all sailor ; but of all sailor , they are by all odd the most directli brought into contact with whatev is appallingli astonish in the sea ; face to face they not onli eye it greatest marvel , but , hand to jaw , give battl to them . alon , in such remotest water , that though you sail a thousand mile , and pass a thousand shore , you would not come to ani chisel hearth - stone , or aught hospit beneath that part of the sun ; in such latitud and longitud , pursu too such a call as he doe , the whaleman is wrap by influenc all tend to make hi fanci pregnant with mani a mighti birth . No wonder , then , that ever gather volum from the mere transit over the widest wateri space , the outblown rumor of the white whale did in the end incorpor with themselv all manner of morbid hint , and half - form foetal suggest of supernatur agenc , which eventu invest mobi dick with new terror unborrow from anyth that visibl appear . So that in mani case such a panic did he final strike , that few who by those rumor , at least , had heard of the white whale , few of those hunter were will to encount the peril of hi jaw . but there were still other and more vital practic influenc at work . not even at the present day ha the origin prestig of the sperm whale , as fear distinguish from all other speci of the leviathan , die out of the mind of the whalemen as a bodi . there are those thi day among them , who , though intellig and courag enough in offer battl to the greenland or right whale , would perhap -- either from profession inexperi , or incompet , or timid , declin a contest with the sperm whale ; at ani rate , there are plenti of whalemen , especi among those whale nation not sail under the american flag , who have never hostil encount the sperm whale , but whose sole knowledg of the leviathan is restrict to the ignobl monster primit pursu in the north ; seat on their hatch , these men will hearken with a childish firesid interest and awe , to the wild , strang tale of southern whale . nor is the pre - emin tremend of the great sperm whale anywher more feelingli comprehend , than on board of those prow which stem him . and as if the now test realiti of hi might had in former legendari time thrown it shadow befor it ; we find some book naturalist -- olassen and povelson -- declar the sperm whale not onli to be a constern to everi other creatur in the sea , but also to be so incred feroci as continu to be athirst for human blood . nor even down to so late a time as cuvier ' s , were these or almost similar impress effac . for in hi natur histori , the baron himself affirm that at sight of the sperm whale , all fish ( shark includ ) are `` struck with the most live terror , '' and `` often in the precipit of their flight dash themselv against the rock with such violenc as to caus instantan death . '' and howev the gener experi in the fisheri may amend such report as these ; yet in their full terribl , even to the bloodthirsti item of povelson , the superstiti belief in them is , in some vicissitud of their vocat , reviv in the mind of the hunter . So that overaw by the rumor and portent concern him , not a few of the fishermen recal , in refer to mobi dick , the earlier day of the sperm whale fisheri , when it wa oftentim hard to induc long practis right whalemen to embark in the peril of thi new and dare warfar ; such men protest that although other leviathan might be hope pursu , yet to chase and point lanc at such an apparit as the sperm whale wa not for mortal man . that to attempt it , would be inevit to be torn into a quick etern . On thi head , there are some remark document that may be consult . nevertheless , some there were , who even in the face of these thing were readi to give chase to mobi dick ; and a still greater number who , chanc onli to hear of him distantli and vagu , without the specif detail of ani certain calam , and without superstiti accompani , were suffici hardi not to flee from the battl if offer . one of the wild suggest refer to , as at last come to be link with the white whale in the mind of the superstiti inclin , wa the unearthli conceit that mobi dick wa ubiquit ; that he had actual been encount in opposit latitud at one and the same instant of time . nor , credul as such mind must have been , wa thi conceit altogeth without some faint show of superstiti probabl . for as the secret of the current in the sea have never yet been divulg , even to the most erudit research ; so the hidden way of the sperm whale when beneath the surfac remain , in great part , unaccount to hi pursuer ; and from time to time have origin the most curiou and contradictori specul regard them , especi concern the mystic mode wherebi , after sound to a great depth , he transport himself with such vast swift to the most wide distant point . It is a thing well known to both american and english whale - ship , and as well a thing place upon authorit record year ago by scoresbi , that some whale have been captur far north in the pacif , in whose bodi have been found the barb of harpoon dart in the greenland sea . nor is it to be gainsaid , that in some of these instanc it ha been declar that the interv of time between the two assault could not have exceed veri mani day . henc , by infer , it ha been believ by some whalemen , that the nor ' west passag , so long a problem to man , wa never a problem to the whale . So that here , in the real live experi of live men , the prodigi relat in old time of the inland strello mountain in portug ( near whose top there wa said to be a lake in which the wreck of ship float up to the surfac ) ; and that still more wonder stori of the arethusa fountain near syracus ( whose water were believ to have come from the holi land by an underground passag ) ; these fabul narrat are almost fulli equal by the realiti of the whalemen . forc into familiar , then , with such prodigi as these ; and know that after repeat , intrepid assault , the white whale had escap aliv ; it can not be much matter of surpris that some whalemen should go still further in their superstit ; declar mobi dick not onli ubiquit , but immort ( for immort is but ubiqu in time ) ; that though grove of spear should be plant in hi flank , he would still swim away unharm ; or if inde he should ever be made to spout thick blood , such a sight would be but a ghastli decept ; for again in unensanguin billow hundr of leagu away , hi unsulli jet would onc more be seen . but even strip of these supernatur surmis , there wa enough in the earthli make and incontest charact of the monster to strike the imagin with unwont power . for , it wa not so much hi uncommon bulk that so much distinguish him from other sperm whale , but , as wa elsewher thrown out -- a peculiar snow - white wrinkl forehead , and a high , pyramid white hump . these were hi promin featur ; the token wherebi , even in the limitless , unchart sea , he reveal hi ident , at a long distanc , to those who knew him . the rest of hi bodi wa so streak , and spot , and marbl with the same shroud hue , that , in the end , he had gain hi distinct appel of the white whale ; a name , inde , liter justifi by hi vivid aspect , when seen glide at high noon through a dark blue sea , leav a milki - way wake of creami foam , all spangl with golden gleam . nor wa it hi unwont magnitud , nor hi remark hue , nor yet hi deform lower jaw , that so much invest the whale with natur terror , as that unexampl , intellig malign which , accord to specif account , he had over and over again evinc in hi assault . more than all , hi treacher retreat struck more of dismay than perhap aught els . for , when swim befor hi exult pursuer , with everi appar symptom of alarm , he had sever time been known to turn round suddenli , and , bear down upon them , either stave their boat to splinter , or drive them back in constern to their ship . alreadi sever fatal had attend hi chase . but though similar disast , howev littl bruit ashor , were by no mean unusu in the fisheri ; yet , in most instanc , such seem the white whale ' s infern aforethought of feroc , that everi dismemb or death that he caus , wa not wholli regard as have been inflict by an unintellig agent . judg , then , to what pitch of inflam , distract furi the mind of hi more desper hunter were impel , when amid the chip of chew boat , and the sink limb of torn comrad , they swam out of the white curd of the whale ' s dire wrath into the seren , exasper sunlight , that smile on , as if at a birth or a bridal . hi three boat stove around him , and oar and men both whirl in the eddi ; one captain , seiz the line - knife from hi broken prow , had dash at the whale , as an arkansa duellist at hi foe , blindli seek with a six inch blade to reach the fathom - deep life of the whale . that captain wa ahab . and then it wa , that suddenli sweep hi sickl - shape lower jaw beneath him , mobi dick had reap away ahab ' s leg , as a mower a blade of grass in the field . No turban turk , no hire venetian or malay , could have smote him with more seem malic . small reason wa there to doubt , then , that ever sinc that almost fatal encount , ahab had cherish a wild vindict against the whale , all the more fell for that in hi frantic morbid he at last came to identifi with him , not onli all hi bodili woe , but all hi intellectu and spiritu exasper . the white whale swam befor him as the monomaniac incarn of all those malici agenc which some deep men feel eat in them , till they are left live on with half a heart and half a lung . that intang malign which ha been from the begin ; to whose dominion even the modern christian ascrib one - half of the world ; which the ancient ophit of the east reverenc in their statu devil ; -- ahab did not fall down and worship it like them ; but deliri transfer it idea to the abhor white whale , he pit himself , all mutil , against it . all that most madden and torment ; all that stir up the lee of thing ; all truth with malic in it ; all that crack the sinew and cake the brain ; all the subtl demon of life and thought ; all evil , to crazi ahab , were visibl personifi , and made practic assail in mobi dick . He pile upon the whale ' s white hump the sum of all the gener rage and hate felt by hi whole race from adam down ; and then , as if hi chest had been a mortar , he burst hi hot heart ' s shell upon it . It is not probabl that thi monomania in him took it instant rise at the precis time of hi bodili dismember . then , in dart at the monster , knife in hand , he had but given loos to a sudden , passion , corpor animos ; and when he receiv the stroke that tore him , he probabl but felt the agon bodili lacer , but noth more . yet , when by thi collis forc to turn toward home , and for long month of day and week , ahab and anguish lay stretch togeth in one hammock , round in mid winter that dreari , howl patagonian cape ; then it wa , that hi torn bodi and gash soul bled into one anoth ; and so interfus , made him mad . that it wa onli then , on the homeward voyag , after the encount , that the final monomania seiz him , seem all but certain from the fact that , at interv dure the passag , he wa a rave lunat ; and , though unlimb of a leg , yet such vital strength yet lurk in hi egyptian chest , and wa moreov intensifi by hi delirium , that hi mate were forc to lace him fast , even there , as he sail , rave in hi hammock . In a strait - jacket , he swung to the mad rock of the gale . and , when run into more suffer latitud , the ship , with mild stun ' sail spread , float across the tranquil tropic , and , to all appear , the old man ' s delirium seem left behind him with the cape horn swell , and he came forth from hi dark den into the bless light and air ; even then , when he bore that firm , collect front , howev pale , and issu hi calm order onc again ; and hi mate thank god the dire mad wa now gone ; even then , ahab , in hi hidden self , rave on . human mad is oftentim a cun and most felin thing . when you think it fled , it may have but becom transfigur into some still subtler form . ahab ' s full lunaci subsid not , but deepeningli contract ; like the unab hudson , when that nobl northman flow narrowli , but unfathom through the highland gorg . but , as in hi narrow - flow monomania , not one jot of ahab ' s broad mad had been left behind ; so in that broad mad , not one jot of hi great natur intellect had perish . that befor live agent , now becam the live instrument . If such a furiou trope may stand , hi special lunaci storm hi gener saniti , and carri it , and turn all it concentr cannon upon it own mad mark ; so that far from have lost hi strength , ahab , to that one end , did now possess a thousand fold more potenc than ever he had sane brought to bear upon ani one reason object . thi is much ; yet ahab ' s larger , darker , deeper part remain unhint . but vain to popular profund , and all truth is profound . wind far down from within the veri heart of thi spike hotel de cluni where we here stand -- howev grand and wonder , now quit it ; -- and take your way , ye nobler , sadder soul , to those vast roman hall of therm ; where far beneath the fantast tower of man ' s upper earth , hi root of grandeur , hi whole aw essenc sit in beard state ; an antiqu buri beneath antiqu , and throne on torso ! So with a broken throne , the great god mock that captiv king ; so like a caryatid , he patient sit , uphold on hi frozen brow the pile entablatur of age . wind ye down there , ye prouder , sadder soul ! question that proud , sad king ! A famili like ! aye , he did beget ye , ye young exil royalti ; and from your grim sire onli will the old state - secret come . now , in hi heart , ahab had some glimps of thi , name : all my mean are sane , my motiv and my object mad . yet without power to kill , or chang , or shun the fact ; he likewis knew that to mankind he did long dissembl ; in some sort , did still . but that thing of hi dissembl wa onli subject to hi percept , not to hi will determin . nevertheless , so well did he succeed in that dissembl , that when with ivori leg he step ashor at last , no nantucket thought him otherwis than but natur griev , and that to the quick , with the terribl casualti which had overtaken him . the report of hi undeni delirium at sea wa likewis popularli ascrib to a kindr caus . and so too , all the ad moodi which alway afterward , to the veri day of sail in the pequod on the present voyag , sat brood on hi brow . nor is it so veri unlik , that far from distrust hi fit for anoth whale voyag , on account of such dark symptom , the calcul peopl of that prudent isl were inclin to harbor the conceit , that for those veri reason he wa all the better qualifi and set on edg , for a pursuit so full of rage and wild as the bloodi hunt of whale . gnaw within and scorch without , with the infix , unrel fang of some incur idea ; such an one , could he be found , would seem the veri man to dart hi iron and lift hi lanc against the most appal of all brute . Or , if for ani reason thought to be corpor incapacit for that , yet such an one would seem superl compet to cheer and howl on hi underl to the attack . but be all thi as it may , certain it is , that with the mad secret of hi unab rage bolt up and key in him , ahab had purpos sail upon the present voyag with the one onli and all - engross object of hunt the white whale . had ani one of hi old acquaint on shore but half dream of what wa lurk in him then , how soon would their aghast and righteou soul have wrench the ship from such a fiendish man ! they were bent on profit cruis , the profit to be count down in dollar from the mint . He wa intent on an audaci , immitig , and supernatur reveng . here , then , wa thi grey - head , ungodli old man , chase with curs a job ' s whale round the world , at the head of a crew , too , chiefli made up of mongrel renegad , and castaway , and cannib -- moral enfeebl also , by the incompet of mere unaid virtu or right - minded in starbuck , the invuner jolliti of indiffer and reckless in stubb , and the pervad mediocr in flask . such a crew , so offic , seem special pick and pack by some infern fatal to help him to hi monomaniac reveng . how it wa that they so aboundingli respond to the old man ' s ire -- by what evil magic their soul were possess , that at time hi hate seem almost their ; the white whale as much their insuffer foe as hi ; how all thi came to be -- what the white whale wa to them , or how to their unconsci understand , also , in some dim , unsuspect way , he might have seem the glide great demon of the sea of life , -- all thi to explain , would be to dive deeper than ishmael can go . the subterranean miner that work in us all , how can one tell whither lead hi shaft by the ever shift , muffl sound of hi pick ? who doe not feel the irresist arm drag ? what skiff in tow of a seventi - four can stand still ? for one , I gave myself up to the abandon of the time and the place ; but while yet all a - rush to encount the whale , could see naught in that brute but the deadliest ill . chapter 42 the white of the whale . what the white whale wa to ahab , ha been hint ; what , at time , he wa to me , as yet remain unsaid . asid from those more obviou consider touch mobi dick , which could not but occasion awaken in ani man ' s soul some alarm , there wa anoth thought , or rather vagu , nameless horror concern him , which at time by it intens complet overpow all the rest ; and yet so mystic and well nigh ineff wa it , that I almost despair of put it in a comprehens form . It wa the white of the whale that abov all thing appal me . but how can I hope to explain myself here ; and yet , in some dim , random way , explain myself I must , els all these chapter might be naught . though in mani natur object , white refiningli enhanc beauti , as if impart some special virtu of it own , as in marbl , japonica , and pearl ; and though variou nation have in some way recognis a certain royal preemin in thi hue ; even the barbar , grand old king of pegu place the titl `` lord of the white eleph `` abov all their other magniloqu ascript of dominion ; and the modern king of siam unfurl the same snow - white quadrup in the royal standard ; and the hanoverian flag bear the one figur of a snow - white charger ; and the great austrian empir , caesarian , heir to overlord rome , have for the imperi colour the same imperi hue ; and though thi pre - emin in it appli to the human race itself , give the white man ideal mastership over everi duski tribe ; and though , besid , all thi , white ha been even made signific of glad , for among the roman a white stone mark a joy day ; and though in other mortal sympathi and symbol , thi same hue is made the emblem of mani touch , nobl thing -- the innoc of bride , the benign of age ; though among the red men of america the give of the white belt of wampum wa the deepest pledg of honour ; though in mani clime , white typifi the majesti of justic in the ermin of the judg , and contribut to the daili state of king and queen drawn by milk - white steed ; though even in the higher mysteri of the most august religion it ha been made the symbol of the divin spotless and power ; by the persian fire worshipp , the white fork flame be held the holiest on the altar ; and in the greek mytholog , great jove himself be made incarn in a snow - white bull ; and though to the nobl iroquoi , the midwint sacrific of the sacr white dog wa by far the holiest festiv of their theolog , that spotless , faith creatur be held the purest envoy they could send to the great spirit with the annual tide of their own fidel ; and though directli from the latin word for white , all christian priest deriv the name of one part of their sacr vestur , the alb or tunic , worn beneath the cassock ; and though among the holi pomp of the romish faith , white is special employ in the celebr of the passion of our lord ; though in the vision of St . john , white robe are given to the redeem , and the four - and - twenti elder stand cloth in white befor the great - white throne , and the holi one that sitteth there white like wool ; yet for all these accumul associ , with whatev is sweet , and honour , and sublim , there yet lurk an elus someth in the innermost idea of thi hue , which strike more of panic to the soul than that red which affright in blood . thi elus qualiti it is , which caus the thought of white , when divorc from more kindli associ , and coupl with ani object terribl in itself , to heighten that terror to the furthest bound . wit the white bear of the pole , and the white shark of the tropic ; what but their smooth , flaki white make them the transcend horror they are ? that ghastli white it is which impart such an abhorr mild , even more loathsom than terrif , to the dumb gloat of their aspect . So that not the fierc - fang tiger in hi herald coat can so stagger courag as the white - shroud bear or shark . * * with refer to the polar bear , it may possibl be urg by him who would fain go still deeper into thi matter , that it is not the white , separ regard , which heighten the intoler hideous of that brute ; for , analys , that heighten hideous , it might be said , onli rise from the circumst , that the irrespons feroci of the creatur stand invest in the fleec of celesti innoc and love ; and henc , by bring togeth two such opposit emot in our mind , the polar bear frighten us with so unnatur a contrast . but even assum all thi to be true ; yet , were it not for the white , you would not have that intensifi terror . As for the white shark , the white glide ghostli of repos in that creatur , when beheld in hi ordinari mood , strang talli with the same qualiti in the polar quadrup . thi peculiar is most vividli hit by the french in the name they bestow upon that fish . the romish mass for the dead begin with `` requiem eternam `` ( etern rest ) , whenc requiem denomin the mass itself , and ani other funer music . now , in allus to the white , silent still of death in thi shark , and the mild deadli of hi habit , the french call him requin . bethink thee of the albatross , whenc come those cloud of spiritu wonder and pale dread , in which that white phantom sail in all imagin ? not coleridg first threw that spell ; but god ' s great , unflatt laureat , natur . * * I rememb the first albatross I ever saw . It wa dure a prolong gale , in water hard upon the antarct sea . from my forenoon watch below , I ascend to the overcloud deck ; and there , dash upon the main hatch , I saw a regal , featheri thing of unspot white , and with a hook , roman bill sublim . At interv , it arch forth it vast archangel wing , as if to embrac some holi ark . wondrou flutter and throb shook it . though bodili unharm , it utter cri , as some king ' s ghost in supernatur distress . through it inexpress , strang eye , methought I peep to secret which took hold of god . As abraham befor the angel , I bow myself ; the white thing wa so white , it wing so wide , and in those for ever exil water , I had lost the miser warp memori of tradit and of town . long I gaze at that prodigi of plumag . I can not tell , can onli hint , the thing that dart through me then . but at last I awok ; and turn , ask a sailor what bird wa thi . A goney , he repli . goney ! never had heard that name befor ; is it conceiv that thi gloriou thing is utterli unknown to men ashor ! never ! but some time after , I learn that goney wa some seaman ' s name for albatross . So that by no possibl could coleridg ' s wild rhyme have had aught to do with those mystic impress which were mine , when I saw that bird upon our deck . for neither had I then read the rhyme , nor knew the bird to be an albatross . yet , in say thi , I do but indirectli burnish a littl brighter the nobl merit of the poem and the poet . I assert , then , that in the wondrou bodili white of the bird chiefli lurk the secret of the spell ; a truth the more evinc in thi , that by a solec of term there are bird call grey albatross ; and these I have frequent seen , but never with such emot as when I beheld the antarct fowl . but how had the mystic thing been caught ? whisper it not , and I will tell ; with a treacher hook and line , as the fowl float on the sea . At last the captain made a postman of it ; tie a letter , leathern talli round it neck , with the ship ' s time and place ; and then let it escap . but I doubt not , that leathern talli , meant for man , wa taken off in heaven , when the white fowl flew to join the wing - fold , the invok , and ador cherubim ! most famou in our western annal and indian tradit is that of the white steed of the prairi ; a magnific milk - white charger , larg - eye , small - head , bluff - chest , and with the digniti of a thousand monarch in hi lofti , overscorn carriag . He wa the elect xerx of vast herd of wild hors , whose pastur in those day were onli fenc by the rocki mountain and the alleghani . At their flame head he westward troop it like that chosen star which everi even lead on the host of light . the flash cascad of hi mane , the curv comet of hi tail , invest him with hous more resplend than gold and silver - beater could have furnish him . A most imperi and archangel apparit of that unfallen , western world , which to the eye of the old trapper and hunter reviv the glori of those primev time when adam walk majest as a god , bluff - brow and fearless as thi mighti steed . whether march amid hi aid and marshal in the van of countless cohort that endlessli stream it over the plain , like an ohio ; or whether with hi circumambi subject brows all around at the horizon , the white steed gallopingli review them with warm nostril redden through hi cool milki ; in whatev aspect he present himself , alway to the bravest indian he wa the object of trembl rever and awe . nor can it be question from what stand on legendari record of thi nobl hors , that it wa hi spiritu white chiefli , which so cloth him with divin ; and that thi divin had that in it which , though command worship , at the same time enforc a certain nameless terror . but there are other instanc where thi white lose all that accessori and strang glori which invest it in the white steed and albatross . what is it that in the albino man so peculiarli repel and often shock the eye , as that sometim he is loath by hi own kith and kin ! It is that white which invest him , a thing express by the name he bear . the albino is as well made as other men -- ha no substant deform -- and yet thi mere aspect of all - pervad white make him more strang hideou than the ugliest abort . whi should thi be so ? nor , in quit other aspect , doe natur in her least palpabl but not the less malici agenc , fail to enlist among her forc thi crown attribut of the terribl . from it snowi aspect , the gauntlet ghost of the southern sea ha been denomin the white squall . nor , in some histor instanc , ha the art of human malic omit so potent an auxiliari . how wildli it heighten the effect of that passag in froissart , when , mask in the snowi symbol of their faction , the desper white hood of ghent murder their bailiff in the market - place ! nor , in some thing , doe the common , hereditari experi of all mankind fail to bear wit to the supernatur of thi hue . It can not well be doubt , that the one visibl qualiti in the aspect of the dead which most appal the gazer , is the marbl pallor linger there ; as if inde that pallor were as much like the badg of constern in the other world , as of mortal trepid here . and from that pallor of the dead , we borrow the express hue of the shroud in which we wrap them . nor even in our superstit do we fail to throw the same snowi mantl round our phantom ; all ghost rise in a milk - white fog -- yea , while these terror seiz us , let us add , that even the king of terror , when personifi by the evangelist , ride on hi pallid hors . therefor , in hi other mood , symbol whatev grand or graciou thing he will by white , no man can deni that in it profoundest ideal signific it call up a peculiar apparit to the soul . but though without dissent thi point be fix , how is mortal man to account for it ? To analys it , would seem imposs . can we , then , by the citat of some of those instanc wherein thi thing of white -- though for the time either wholli or in great part strip of all direct associ calcul to impart to it aught fear , but nevertheless , is found to exert over us the same sorceri , howev modifi ; -- can we thu hope to light upon some chanc clue to conduct us to the hidden caus we seek ? let us tri . but in a matter like thi , subtleti appeal to subtleti , and without imagin no man can follow anoth into these hall . and though , doubtless , some at least of the imagin impress about to be present may have been share by most men , yet few perhap were entir consciou of them at the time , and therefor may not be abl to recal them now . whi to the man of untutor ideal , who happen to be but loos acquaint with the peculiar charact of the day , doe the bare mention of whitsuntid marshal in the fanci such long , dreari , speechless process of slow - pace pilgrim , down - cast and hood with new - fallen snow ? Or , to the unread , unsophist protest of the middl american state , whi doe the pass mention of a white friar or a white nun , evok such an eyeless statu in the soul ? Or what is there apart from the tradit of dungeon warrior and king ( which will not wholli account for it ) that make the white tower of london tell so much more strongli on the imagin of an untravel american , than those other stori structur , it neighbor -- the byward tower , or even the bloodi ? and those sublim tower , the white mountain of new hampshir , whenc , in peculiar mood , come that gigant ghostli over the soul at the bare mention of that name , while the thought of virginia ' s blue ridg is full of a soft , dewi , distant dreami ? Or whi , irrespect of all latitud and longitud , doe the name of the white sea exert such a spectral over the fanci , while that of the yellow sea lull us with mortal thought of long lacquer mild afternoon on the wave , follow by the gaudiest and yet sleepiest of sunset ? Or , to choos a wholli unsubstanti instanc , pure address to the fanci , whi , in read the old fairi tale of central europ , doe `` the tall pale man `` of the hartz forest , whose changeless pallor unrustlingli glide through the green of the grove -- whi is thi phantom more terribl than all the whoop imp of the blocksburg ? nor is it , altogeth , the remembr of her cathedr - toppl earthquak ; nor the stampedo of her frantic sea ; nor the tearless of arid sky that never rain ; nor the sight of her wide field of lean spire , wrench cope - stone , and cross all adroop ( like cant yard of anchor fleet ) ; and her suburban avenu of hous - wall lie over upon each other , as a toss pack of card ; -- it is not these thing alon which make tearless lima , the strangest , saddest citi thou can ' st see . for lima ha taken the white veil ; and there is a higher horror in thi white of her woe . old as pizarro , thi white keep her ruin for ever new ; admit not the cheer green of complet decay ; spread over her broken rampart the rigid pallor of an apoplexi that fix it own distort . I know that , to the common apprehens , thi phenomenon of white is not confess to be the prime agent in exagger the terror of object otherwis terribl ; nor to the unimagin mind is there aught of terror in those appear whose aw to anoth mind almost sole consist in thi one phenomenon , especi when exhibit under ani form at all approach to mute or univers . what I mean by these two statement may perhap be respect elucid by the follow exampl . first : the marin , when draw nigh the coast of foreign land , if by night he hear the roar of breaker , start to vigil , and feel just enough of trepid to sharpen all hi faculti ; but under precis similar circumst , let him be call from hi hammock to view hi ship sail through a midnight sea of milki white -- as if from encircl headland shoal of comb white bear were swim round him , then he feel a silent , superstiti dread ; the shroud phantom of the whiten water is horribl to him as a real ghost ; in vain the lead assur him he is still off sound ; heart and helm they both go down ; he never rest till blue water is under him again . yet where is the marin who will tell thee , `` sir , it wa not so much the fear of strike hidden rock , as the fear of that hideou white that so stir me ? '' second : To the nativ indian of peru , the continu sight of the snowhowdah and convey naught of dread , except , perhap , in the mere fanci of the etern frost desol reign at such vast altitud , and the natur conceit of what a fear it would be to lose oneself in such inhuman solitud . much the same is it with the backwoodsman of the west , who with compar indiffer view an unbound prairi sheet with driven snow , no shadow of tree or twig to break the fix tranc of white . not so the sailor , behold the sceneri of the antarct sea ; where at time , by some infern trick of legerdemain in the power of frost and air , he , shiver and half shipwreck , instead of rainbow speak hope and solac to hi miseri , view what seem a boundless churchyard grin upon him with it lean ice monument and splinter cross . but thou sayest , methink that white - lead chapter about white is but a white flag hung out from a craven soul ; thou surrenderest to a hypo , ishmael . tell me , whi thi strong young colt , foal in some peac valley of vermont , far remov from all beast of prey -- whi is it that upon the sunniest day , if you but shake a fresh buffalo robe behind him , so that he can not even see it , but onli smell it wild anim muski -- whi will he start , snort , and with burst eye paw the ground in phrensi of affright ? there is no remembr in him of ani gore of wild creatur in hi green northern home , so that the strang muski he smell can not recal to him anyth associ with the experi of former peril ; for what know he , thi new england colt , of the black bison of distant oregon ? No ; but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute , the instinct of the knowledg of the demon in the world . though thousand of mile from oregon , still when he smell that savag musk , the rend , gore bison herd are as present as to the desert wild foal of the prairi , which thi instant they may be trampl into dust . thu , then , the muffl roll of a milki sea ; the bleak rustl of the festoon frost of mountain ; the desol shift of the windrow snow of prairi ; all these , to ishmael , are as the shake of that buffalo robe to the frighten colt ! though neither know where lie the nameless thing of which the mystic sign give forth such hint ; yet with me , as with the colt , somewher those thing must exist . though in mani of it aspect thi visibl world seem form in love , the invis sphere were form in fright . but not yet have we solv the incant of thi white , and learn whi it appeal with such power to the soul ; and more strang and far more portent -- whi , as we have seen , it is at onc the most mean symbol of spiritu thing , nay , the veri veil of the christian ' s deiti ; and yet should be as it is , the intensifi agent in thing the most appal to mankind . Is it that by it indefinit it shadow forth the heartless void and immens of the univers , and thu stab us from behind with the thought of annihil , when behold the white depth of the milki way ? Or is it , that as in essenc white is not so much a colour as the visibl absenc of colour ; and at the same time the concret of all colour ; is it for these reason that there is such a dumb blank , full of mean , in a wide landscap of snow -- a colourless , all - colour of atheism from which we shrink ? and when we consid that other theori of the natur philosoph , that all other earthli hue -- everi state or love emblazon -- the sweet ting of sunset sky and wood ; yea , and the gild velvet of butterfli , and the butterfli cheek of young girl ; all these are but subtil deceit , not actual inher in substanc , but onli laid on from without ; so that all deifi natur absolut paint like the harlot , whose allur cover noth but the charnel - hous within ; and when we proceed further , and consid that the mystic cosmet which produc everi one of her hue , the great principl of light , for ever remain white or colourless in itself , and if oper without medium upon matter , would touch all object , even tulip and rose , with it own blank ting -- ponder all thi , the palsi univers lie befor us a leper ; and like wil travel in lapland , who refus to wear colour and colour glass upon their eye , so the wretch infidel gaze himself blind at the monument white shroud that wrap all the prospect around him . and of all these thing the albino whale wa the symbol . wonder ye then at the fieri hunt ? chapter 43 hark ! `` hist ! did you hear that nois , cabaco ? It wa the middl - watch ; a fair moonlight ; the seamen were stand in a cordon , extend from one of the fresh - water butt in the waist , to the scuttl - butt near the taffrail . In thi manner , they pass the bucket to fill the scuttl - butt . stand , for the most part , on the hallow precinct of the quarter - deck , they were care not to speak or rustl their feet . from hand to hand , the bucket went in the deepest silenc , onli broken by the occasion flap of a sail , and the steadi hum of the unceasingli advanc keel . It wa in the midst of thi repos , that archi , one of the cordon , whose post wa near the after - hatch , whisper to hi neighbor , a cholo , the word abov . `` hist ! did you hear that nois , cabaco ? '' `` take the bucket , will ye , archi ? what nois d ' ye mean ? '' `` there it is again -- under the hatch -- don ' t you hear it -- a cough -- it sound like a cough . '' `` cough be damn ! pass along that return bucket . '' `` there again -- there it is ! -- it sound like two or three sleeper turn over , now ! '' `` caramba ! have done , shipmat , will ye ? It ' s the three soak biscuit ye eat for supper turn over insid of ye -- noth els . look to the bucket ! '' `` say what ye will , shipmat ; I ' ve sharp ear . '' `` aye , you are the chap , ain ' t ye , that heard the hum of the old quakeress ' s knit - needl fifti mile at sea from nantucket ; you ' re the chap . '' `` grin away ; we ' ll see what turn up . hark ye , cabaco , there is somebodi down in the after - hold that ha not yet been seen on deck ; and I suspect our old mogul know someth of it too . I heard stubb tell flask , one morn watch , that there wa someth of that sort in the wind . '' `` tish ! the bucket ! '' chapter 44 the chart . had you follow captain ahab down into hi cabin after the squall that took place on the night succeed that wild ratif of hi purpos with hi crew , you would have seen him go to a locker in the transom , and bring out a larg wrinkl roll of yellowish sea chart , spread them befor him on hi screw - down tabl . then seat himself befor it , you would have seen him intent studi the variou line and shade which there met hi eye ; and with slow but steadi pencil trace addit cours over space that befor were blank . At interv , he would refer to pile of old log - book besid him , wherein were set down the season and place in which , on variou former voyag of variou ship , sperm whale had been captur or seen . while thu employ , the heavi pewter lamp suspend in chain over hi head , continu rock with the motion of the ship , and for ever threw shift gleam and shadow of line upon hi wrinkl brow , till it almost seem that while he himself wa mark out line and cours on the wrinkl chart , some invis pencil wa also trace line and cours upon the deepli mark chart of hi forehead . but it wa not thi night in particular that , in the solitud of hi cabin , ahab thu ponder over hi chart . almost everi night they were brought out ; almost everi night some pencil mark were effac , and other were substitut . for with the chart of all four ocean befor him , ahab wa thread a maze of current and eddi , with a view to the more certain accomplish of that monomaniac thought of hi soul . now , to ani one not fulli acquaint with the way of the leviathan , it might seem an absurdli hopeless task thu to seek out one solitari creatur in the unhoop ocean of thi planet . but not so did it seem to ahab , who knew the set of all tide and current ; and therebi calcul the drift of the sperm whale ' s food ; and , also , call to mind the regular , ascertain season for hunt him in particular latitud ; could arriv at reason surmis , almost approach to certainti , concern the timeliest day to be upon thi or that ground in search of hi prey . So assur , inde , is the fact concern the periodic of the sperm whale ' s resort to given water , that mani hunter believ that , could he be close observ and studi throughout the world ; were the log for one voyag of the entir whale fleet care collat , then the migrat of the sperm whale would be found to correspond in invari to those of the her - shoal or the flight of swallow . On thi hint , attempt have been made to construct elabor migratori chart of the sperm whale . * * sinc the abov wa written , the statement is happili born out by an offici circular , issu by lieuten mauri , of the nation observatori , washington , april 16th , 1851 . By that circular , it appear that precis such a chart is in cours of complet ; and portion of it are present in the circular . `` thi chart divid the ocean into district of five degre of latitud by five degre of longitud ; perpendicularli through each of which district are twelv column for the twelv month ; and horizont through each of which district are three line ; one to show the number of day that have been spent in each month in everi district , and the two other to show the number of day in which whale , sperm or right , have been seen . '' besid , when make a passag from one feed - ground to anoth , the sperm whale , guid by some infal instinct -- say , rather , secret intellig from the deiti -- mostli swim in vein , as they are call ; continu their way along a given ocean - line with such undevi exactitud , that no ship ever sail her cours , by ani chart , with one tith of such marvel precis . though , in these case , the direct taken by ani one whale be straight as a surveyor ' s parallel , and though the line of advanc be strictli confin to it own unavoid , straight wake , yet the arbitrari vein in which at these time he is said to swim , gener embrac some few mile in width ( more or less , as the vein is presum to expand or contract ) ; but never exce the visual sweep from the whale - ship ' s mast - head , when circumspectli glide along thi magic zone . the sum is , that at particular season within that breadth and along that path , migrat whale may with great confid be look for . and henc not onli at substanti time , upon well known separ feed - ground , could ahab hope to encount hi prey ; but in cross the widest expans of water between those ground he could , by hi art , so place and time himself on hi way , as even then not to be wholli without prospect of a meet . there wa a circumst which at first sight seem to entangl hi deliri but still method scheme . but not so in the realiti , perhap . though the gregari sperm whale have their regular season for particular ground , yet in gener you can not conclud that the herd which haunt such and such a latitud or longitud thi year , say , will turn out to be ident the same with those that were found there the preced season ; though there are peculiar and unquestion instanc where the contrari of thi ha prove true . In gener , the same remark , onli within a less wide limit , appli to the solitari and hermit among the matur , age sperm whale . So that though mobi dick had in a former year been seen , for exampl , on what is call the seychel ground in the indian ocean , or volcano bay on the japanes coast ; yet it did not follow , that were the pequod to visit either of those spot at ani subsequ correspond season , she would infal encount him there . So , too , with some other feed ground , where he had at time reveal himself . but all these seem onli hi casual stop - place and ocean - inn , so to speak , not hi place of prolong abod . and where ahab ' s chanc of accomplish hi object have hitherto been spoken of , allus ha onli been made to whatev way - side , anteced , extra prospect were hi , ere a particular set time or place were attain , when all possibl would becom probabl , and , as ahab fondli thought , everi possibl the next thing to a certainti . that particular set time and place were conjoin in the one technic phrase -- the season - on - the - line . for there and then , for sever consecut year , mobi dick had been period descri , linger in those water for awhil , as the sun , in it annual round , loiter for a predict interv in ani one sign of the zodiac . there it wa , too , that most of the deadli encount with the white whale had taken place ; there the wave were stori with hi deed ; there also wa that tragic spot where the monomaniac old man had found the aw motiv to hi vengeanc . but in the cautiou comprehens and unloit vigil with which ahab threw hi brood soul into thi unfalt hunt , he would not permit himself to rest all hi hope upon the one crown fact abov mention , howev flatter it might be to those hope ; nor in the sleepless of hi vow could he so tranquil hi unquiet heart as to postpon all interven quest . now , the pequod had sail from nantucket at the veri begin of the season - on - the - line . No possibl endeavor then could enabl her command to make the great passag southward , doubl cape horn , and then run down sixti degre of latitud arriv in the equatori pacif in time to cruis there . therefor , he must wait for the next ensu season . yet the prematur hour of the pequod ' s sail had , perhap , been correctli select by ahab , with a view to thi veri complexion of thing . becaus , an interv of three hundr and sixti - five day and night wa befor him ; an interv which , instead of impati endur ashor , he would spend in a miscellan hunt ; if by chanc the white whale , spend hi vacat in sea far remot from hi period feed - ground , should turn up hi wrinkl brow off the persian gulf , or in the bengal bay , or china sea , or in ani other water haunt by hi race . So that monsoon , pampa , nor '- wester , harmattan , trade ; ani wind but the levant and simoon , might blow mobi dick into the deviou zig - zag world - circl of the pequod ' s circumnavig wake . but grant all thi ; yet , regard discreetli and coolli , seem it not but a mad idea , thi ; that in the broad boundless ocean , one solitari whale , even if encount , should be thought capabl of individu recognit from hi hunter , even as a white - beard mufti in the throng thoroughfar of constantinopl ? ye . for the peculiar snow - white brow of mobi dick , and hi snow - white hump , could not but be unmistak . and have I not talli the whale , ahab would mutter to himself , as after pore over hi chart till long after midnight he would throw himself back in reveri -- talli him , and shall he escap ? hi broad fin are bore , and scallop out like a lost sheep ' s ear ! and here , hi mad mind would run on in a breathless race ; till a weari and faint of ponder came over him ; and in the open air of the deck he would seek to recov hi strength . Ah , god ! what tranc of torment doe that man endur who is consum with one unachiev reveng desir . He sleep with clench hand ; and wake with hi own bloodi nail in hi palm . often , when forc from hi hammock by exhaust and intoler vivid dream of the night , which , resum hi own intens thought through the day , carri them on amid a clash of phrensi , and whirl them round and round and round in hi blaze brain , till the veri throb of hi life - spot becam insuffer anguish ; and when , as wa sometim the case , these spiritu throe in him heav hi be up from it base , and a chasm seem open in him , from which fork flame and lightn shot up , and accurs fiend beckon him to leap down among them ; when thi hell in himself yawn beneath him , a wild cri would be heard through the ship ; and with glare eye ahab would burst from hi state room , as though escap from a bed that wa on fire . yet these , perhap , instead of be the unsuppress symptom of some latent weak , or fright at hi own resolv , were but the plainest token of it intens . for , at such time , crazi ahab , the scheme , unappeasedli steadfast hunter of the white whale ; thi ahab that had gone to hi hammock , wa not the agent that so caus him to burst from it in horror again . the latter wa the etern , live principl or soul in him ; and in sleep , be for the time dissoci from the character mind , which at other time employ it for it outer vehicl or agent , it spontan sought escap from the scorch contigu of the frantic thing , of which , for the time , it wa no longer an integr . but as the mind doe not exist unless leagu with the soul , therefor it must have been that , in ahab ' s case , yield up all hi thought and fanci to hi one suprem purpos ; that purpos , by it own sheer inveteraci of will , forc itself against god and devil into a kind of self - assum , independ be of it own . nay , could grimli live and burn , while the common vital to which it wa conjoin , fled horror - stricken from the unbidden and unfath birth . therefor , the torment spirit that glare out of bodili eye , when what seem ahab rush from hi room , wa for the time but a vacat thing , a formless somnambulist be , a ray of live light , to be sure , but without an object to colour , and therefor a blank in itself . god help thee , old man , thi thought have creat a creatur in thee ; and he whose intens think thu make him a prometheu ; a vultur feed upon that heart for ever ; that vultur the veri creatur he creat . chapter 45 the affidavit . So far as what there may be of a narr in thi book ; and , inde , as indirectli touch one or two veri interest and curiou particular in the habit of sperm whale , the forego chapter , in it earlier part , is as import a one as will be found in thi volum ; but the lead matter of it requir to be still further and more familiarli enlarg upon , in order to be adequ understood , and moreov to take away ani incredul which a profound ignor of the entir subject may induc in some mind , as to the natur veriti of the main point of thi affair . I care not to perform thi part of my task method ; but shall be content to produc the desir impress by separ citat of item , practic or reliabl known to me as a whaleman ; and from these citat , I take it -- the conclus aim at will natur follow of itself . first : I have person known three instanc where a whale , after receiv a harpoon , ha effect a complet escap ; and , after an interv ( in one instanc of three year ) , ha been again struck by the same hand , and slain ; when the two iron , both mark by the same privat cypher , have been taken from the bodi . In the instanc where three year interven between the fling of the two harpoon ; and I think it may have been someth more than that ; the man who dart them happen , in the interv , to go in a trade ship on a voyag to africa , went ashor there , join a discoveri parti , and penetr far into the interior , where he travel for a period of nearli two year , often endang by serpent , savag , tiger , poison miasma , with all the other common peril incid to wander in the heart of unknown region . meanwhil , the whale he had struck must also have been on it travel ; no doubt it had thrice circumnavig the globe , brush with it flank all the coast of africa ; but to no purpos . thi man and thi whale again came togeth , and the one vanquish the other . I say I , myself , have known three instanc similar to thi ; that is in two of them I saw the whale struck ; and , upon the second attack , saw the two iron with the respect mark cut in them , afterward taken from the dead fish . In the three - year instanc , it so fell out that I wa in the boat both time , first and last , and the last time distinctli recognis a peculiar sort of huge mole under the whale ' s eye , which I had observ there three year previou . I say three year , but I am pretti sure it wa more than that . here are three instanc , then , which I person know the truth of ; but I have heard of mani other instanc from person whose verac in the matter there is no good ground to impeach . secondli : It is well known in the sperm whale fisheri , howev ignor the world ashor may be of it , that there have been sever memor histor instanc where a particular whale in the ocean ha been at distant time and place popularli cognis . whi such a whale becam thu mark wa not altogeth and origin owe to hi bodili peculiar as distinguish from other whale ; for howev peculiar in that respect ani chanc whale may be , they soon put an end to hi peculiar by kill him , and boil him down into a peculiarli valuabl oil . No : the reason wa thi : that from the fatal experi of the fisheri there hung a terribl prestig of peril about such a whale as there did about rinaldo rinaldini , insomuch that most fishermen were content to recognis him by mere touch their tarpaulin when he would be discov loung by them on the sea , without seek to cultiv a more intim acquaint . like some poor devil ashor that happen to know an irasc great man , they make distant unobtrus salut to him in the street , lest if they pursu the acquaint further , they might receiv a summari thump for their presumpt . but not onli did each of these famou whale enjoy great individu celebr -- nay , you may call it an ocean - wide renown ; not onli wa he famou in life and now is immort in forecastl stori after death , but he wa admit into all the right , privileg , and distinct of a name ; had as much a name inde as cambys or caesar . wa it not so , O timor tom ! thou fame leviathan , scar like an iceberg , who so long did ' st lurk in the orient strait of that name , whose spout wa oft seen from the palmi beach of ombay ? wa it not so , O new zealand jack ! thou terror of all cruiser that cross their wake in the vicin of the tattoo land ? wa it not so , O morquan ! king of japan , whose lofti jet they say at time assum the semblanc of a snow - white cross against the sky ? wa it not so , O don miguel ! thou chilian whale , mark like an old tortois with mystic hieroglyph upon the back ! In plain prose , here are four whale as well known to the student of cetacean histori as mariu or sylla to the classic scholar . but thi is not all . new zealand tom and don miguel , after at variou time creat great havoc among the boat of differ vessel , were final gone in quest of , systemat hunt out , chase and kill by valiant whale captain , who heav up their anchor with that express object as much in view , as in set out through the narragansett wood , captain butler of old had it in hi mind to captur that notori murder savag annawon , the headmost warrior of the indian king philip . I do not know where I can find a better place than just here , to make mention of one or two other thing , which to me seem import , as in print form establish in all respect the reason of the whole stori of the white whale , more especi the catastroph . for thi is one of those dishearten instanc where truth requir full as much bolster as error . So ignor are most landsmen of some of the plainest and most palpabl wonder of the world , that without some hint touch the plain fact , histor and otherwis , of the fisheri , they might scout at mobi dick as a monstrou fabl , or still wors and more detest , a hideou and intoler allegori . first : though most men have some vagu flit idea of the gener peril of the grand fisheri , yet they have noth like a fix , vivid concept of those peril , and the frequenc with which they recur . one reason perhap is , that not one in fifti of the actual disast and death by casualti in the fisheri , ever find a public record at home , howev transient and immedi forgotten that record . Do you suppos that that poor fellow there , who thi moment perhap caught by the whale - line off the coast of new guinea , is be carri down to the bottom of the sea by the sound leviathan -- do you suppos that that poor fellow ' s name will appear in the newspap obituari you will read to - morrow at your breakfast ? No : becaus the mail are veri irregular between here and new guinea . In fact , did you ever hear what might be call regular news direct or indirect from new guinea ? yet I tell you that upon one particular voyag which I made to the pacif , among mani other we spoke thirti differ ship , everi one of which had had a death by a whale , some of them more than one , and three that had each lost a boat ' s crew . for god ' s sake , be econom with your lamp and candl ! not a gallon you burn , but at least one drop of man ' s blood wa spill for it . secondli : peopl ashor have inde some indefinit idea that a whale is an enorm creatur of enorm power ; but I have ever found that when narrat to them some specif exampl of thi two - fold enorm , they have significantli compliment me upon my faceti ; when , I declar upon my soul , I had no more idea of be faceti than mose , when he wrote the histori of the plagu of egypt . but fortun the special point I here seek can be establish upon testimoni entir independ of my own . that point is thi : the sperm whale is in some case suffici power , know , and judici malici , as with direct aforethought to stave in , utterli destroy , and sink a larg ship ; and what is more , the sperm whale ha done it . first : In the year 1820 the ship essex , captain pollard , of nantucket , wa cruis in the pacif ocean . one day she saw spout , lower her boat , and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whale . ere long , sever of the whale were wound ; when , suddenli , a veri larg whale escap from the boat , issu from the shoal , and bore directli down upon the ship . dash hi forehead against her hull , he so stove her in , that in less than `` ten minut `` she settl down and fell over . not a surviv plank of her ha been seen sinc . after the severest exposur , part of the crew reach the land in their boat . be return home at last , captain pollard onc more sail for the pacif in command of anoth ship , but the god shipwreck him again upon unknown rock and breaker ; for the second time hi ship wa utterli lost , and forthwith forswear the sea , he ha never tempt it sinc . At thi day captain pollard is a resid of nantucket . I have seen owen chace , who wa chief mate of the essex at the time of the tragedi ; I have read hi plain and faith narr ; I have convers with hi son ; and all thi within a few mile of the scene of the catastroph . * * the follow are extract from chace ' s narr : `` everi fact seem to warrant me in conclud that it wa anyth but chanc which direct hi oper ; he made two sever attack upon the ship , at a short interv between them , both of which , accord to their direct , were calcul to do us the most injuri , by be made ahead , and therebi combin the speed of the two object for the shock ; to effect which , the exact manoeuvr which he made were necessari . hi aspect wa most horribl , and such as indic resent and furi . He came directli from the shoal which we had just befor enter , and in which we had struck three of hi companion , as if fire with reveng for their suffer . '' again : `` At all event , the whole circumst taken togeth , all happen befor my own eye , and produc , at the time , impress in my mind of decid , calcul mischief , on the part of the whale ( mani of which impress I can not now recal ) , induc me to be satisfi that I am correct in my opinion . '' here are hi reflect some time after quit the ship , dure a black night an open boat , when almost despair of reach ani hospit shore . `` the dark ocean and swell water were noth ; the fear of be swallow up by some dread tempest , or dash upon hidden rock , with all the other ordinari subject of fear contempl , seem scarc entitl to a moment ' s thought ; the dismal look wreck , and the horrid aspect and reveng OF the whale , wholli engross my reflect , until day again made it appear . '' In anoth place -- p . 45 , -- he speak of `` the mysteri and mortal attack OF the anim . '' secondli : the ship union , also of nantucket , wa in the year 1807 total lost off the azor by a similar onset , but the authent particular of thi catastroph I have never chanc to encount , though from the whale hunter I have now and then heard casual allus to it . thirdli : some eighteen or twenti year ago commodor J -- - , then command an american sloop - of - war of the first class , happen to be dine with a parti of whale captain , on board a nantucket ship in the harbor of oahu , sandwich island . convers turn upon whale , the commodor wa pleas to be sceptic touch the amaz strength ascrib to them by the profession gentlemen present . He peremptorili deni for exampl , that ani whale could so smite hi stout sloop - of - war as to caus her to leak so much as a thimbl . veri good ; but there is more come . some week after , the commodor set sail in thi impregn craft for valparaiso . but he wa stop on the way by a portli sperm whale , that beg a few moment ' confidenti busi with him . that busi consist in fetch the commodor ' s craft such a thwack , that with all hi pump go he made straight for the nearest port to heav down and repair . I am not superstiti , but I consid the commodor ' s interview with that whale as providenti . wa not saul of tarsu convert from unbelief by a similar fright ? I tell you , the sperm whale will stand no nonsens . I will now refer you to langsdorff ' s voyag for a littl circumst in point , peculiarli interest to the writer hereof . langsdorff , you must know by the way , wa attach to the russian admir krusenstern ' s famou discoveri expedit in the begin of the present centuri . captain langsdorff thu begin hi seventeenth chapter : `` By the thirteenth of may our ship wa readi to sail , and the next day we were out in the open sea , on our way to ochotsh . the weather wa veri clear and fine , but so intoler cold that we were oblig to keep on our fur cloth . for some day we had veri littl wind ; it wa not till the nineteenth that a brisk gale from the northwest sprang up . An uncommon larg whale , the bodi of which wa larger than the ship itself , lay almost at the surfac of the water , but wa not perceiv by ani one on board till the moment when the ship , which wa in full sail , wa almost upon him , so that it wa imposs to prevent it strike against him . We were thu place in the most immin danger , as thi gigant creatur , set up it back , rais the ship three feet at least out of the water . the mast reel , and the sail fell altogeth , while we who were below all sprang instantli upon the deck , conclud that we had struck upon some rock ; instead of thi we saw the monster sail off with the utmost graviti and solemn . captain D ' wolf appli immedi to the pump to examin whether or not the vessel had receiv ani damag from the shock , but we found that veri happili it had escap entir uninjur . '' now , the captain D ' wolf here allud to as command the ship in question , is a new england , who , after a long life of unusu adventur as a sea - captain , thi day resid in the villag of dorchest near boston . I have the honour of be a nephew of hi . I have particularli question him concern thi passag in langsdorff . He substanti everi word . the ship , howev , wa by no mean a larg one : a russian craft built on the siberian coast , and purchas by my uncl after barter away the vessel in which he sail from home . In that up and down manli book of old - fashion adventur , so full , too , of honest wonder -- the voyag of lionel wafer , one of ancient dampier ' s old chum -- I found a littl matter set down so like that just quot from langsdorff , that I can not forbear insert it here for a corrobor exampl , if such be need . lionel , it seem , wa on hi way to `` john ferdinando , '' as he call the modern juan fernand . `` In our way thither , '' he say , `` about four o ' clock in the morn , when we were about one hundr and fifti leagu from the main of america , our ship felt a terribl shock , which put our men in such constern that they could hardli tell where they were or what to think ; but everi one began to prepar for death . and , inde , the shock wa so sudden and violent , that we took it for grant the ship had struck against a rock ; but when the amaz wa a littl over , we cast the lead , and sound , but found no ground . .... the sudden of the shock made the gun leap in their carriag , and sever of the men were shaken out of their hammock . captain davi , who lay with hi head on a gun , wa thrown out of hi cabin ! '' lionel then goe on to imput the shock to an earthquak , and seem to substanti the imput by state that a great earthquak , somewher about that time , did actual do great mischief along the spanish land . but I should not much wonder if , in the dark of that earli hour of the morn , the shock wa after all caus by an unseen whale vertic bump the hull from beneath . I might proceed with sever more exampl , one way or anoth known to me , of the great power and malic at time of the sperm whale . In more than one instanc , he ha been known , not onli to chase the assail boat back to their ship , but to pursu the ship itself , and long withstand all the lanc hurl at him from it deck . the english ship pusi hall can tell a stori on that head ; and , as for hi strength , let me say , that there have been exampl where the line attach to a run sperm whale have , in a calm , been transfer to the ship , and secur there ; the whale tow her great hull through the water , as a hors walk off with a cart . again , it is veri often observ that , if the sperm whale , onc struck , is allow time to ralli , he then act , not so often with blind rage , as with wil , deliber design of destruct to hi pursuer ; nor is it without convey some eloqu indic of hi charact , that upon be attack he will frequent open hi mouth , and retain it in that dread expans for sever consecut minut . but I must be content with onli one more and a conclud illustr ; a remark and most signific one , by which you will not fail to see , that not onli is the most marvel event in thi book corrobor by plain fact of the present day , but that these marvel ( like all marvel ) are mere repetit of the age ; so that for the millionth time we say amen with solomon -- verili there is noth new under the sun . In the sixth christian centuri live procopiu , a christian magistr of constantinopl , in the day when justinian wa emperor and belisariu gener . As mani know , he wrote the histori of hi own time , a work everi way of uncommon valu . By the best author , he ha alway been consid a most trustworthi and unexagger historian , except in some one or two particular , not at all affect the matter present to be mention . now , in thi histori of hi , procopiu mention that , dure the term of hi prefectur at constantinopl , a great sea - monster wa captur in the neighbor proponti , or sea of marmora , after have destroy vessel at interv in those water for a period of more than fifti year . A fact thu set down in substanti histori can not easili be gainsaid . nor is there ani reason it should be . Of what precis speci thi sea - monster wa , is not mention . but as he destroy ship , as well as for other reason , he must have been a whale ; and I am strongli inclin to think a sperm whale . and I will tell you whi . for a long time I fanci that the sperm whale had been alway unknown in the mediterranean and the deep water connect with it . even now I am certain that those sea are not , and perhap never can be , in the present constitut of thing , a place for hi habitu gregari resort . but further investig have recent prove to me , that in modern time there have been isol instanc of the presenc of the sperm whale in the mediterranean . I am told , on good author , that on the barbari coast , a commodor davi of the british navi found the skeleton of a sperm whale . now , as a vessel of war readili pass through the dardanel , henc a sperm whale could , by the same rout , pass out of the mediterranean into the proponti . In the proponti , as far as I can learn , none of that peculiar substanc call brit is to be found , the aliment of the right whale . but I have everi reason to believ that the food of the sperm whale -- squid or cuttl - fish -- lurk at the bottom of that sea , becaus larg creatur , but by no mean the largest of that sort , have been found at it surfac . If , then , you properli put these statement togeth , and reason upon them a bit , you will clearli perceiv that , accord to all human reason , procopiu ' s sea - monster , that for half a centuri stove the ship of a roman emperor , must in all probabl have been a sperm whale . chapter 46 surmis . though , consum with the hot fire of hi purpos , ahab in all hi thought and action ever had in view the ultim captur of mobi dick ; though he seem readi to sacrific all mortal interest to that one passion ; nevertheless it may have been that he wa by natur and long habitu far too wed to a fieri whaleman ' s way , altogeth to abandon the collater prosecut of the voyag . Or at least if thi were otherwis , there were not want other motiv much more influenti with him . It would be refin too much , perhap , even consid hi monomania , to hint that hi vindict toward the white whale might have possibl extend itself in some degre to all sperm whale , and that the more monster he slew by so much the more he multipli the chanc that each subsequ encount whale would prove to be the hate one he hunt . but if such an hypothesi be inde exception , there were still addit consider which , though not so strictli accord with the wild of hi rule passion , yet were by no mean incap of sway him . To accomplish hi object ahab must use tool ; and of all tool use in the shadow of the moon , men are most apt to get out of order . He knew , for exampl , that howev magnet hi ascend in some respect wa over starbuck , yet that ascend did not cover the complet spiritu man ani more than mere corpor superior involv intellectu mastership ; for to the pure spiritu , the intellectu but stand in a sort of corpor relat . starbuck ' s bodi and starbuck ' s coerc will were ahab ' s , so long as ahab kept hi magnet at starbuck ' s brain ; still he knew that for all thi the chief mate , in hi soul , abhor hi captain ' s quest , and could he , would joy disintegr himself from it , or even frustrat it . It might be that a long interv would elaps ere the white whale wa seen . dure that long interv starbuck would ever be apt to fall into open relaps of rebellion against hi captain ' s leadership , unless some ordinari , prudenti , circumstanti influenc were brought to bear upon him . not onli that , but the subtl insan of ahab respect mobi dick wa noway more significantli manifest than in hi superl sens and shrewd in forese that , for the present , the hunt should in some way be strip of that strang imagin impious which natur invest it ; that the full terror of the voyag must be kept withdrawn into the obscur background ( for few men ' s courag is proof against protract medit unreliev by action ) ; that when they stood their long night watch , hi offic and men must have some nearer thing to think of than mobi dick . for howev eagerli and impetu the savag crew had hail the announc of hi quest ; yet all sailor of all sort are more or less caprici and unreli -- they live in the vari outer weather , and they inhal it fickl -- and when retain for ani object remot and blank in the pursuit , howev promissori of life and passion in the end , it is abov all thing requisit that temporari interest and employ should interven and hold them healthili suspend for the final dash . nor wa ahab unmind of anoth thing . In time of strong emot mankind disdain all base consider ; but such time are evanesc . the perman constitut condit of the manufactur man , thought ahab , is sordid . grant that the white whale fulli incit the heart of thi my savag crew , and play round their savag even breed a certain gener knight - errant in them , still , while for the love of it they give chase to mobi dick , they must also have food for their more common , daili appetit . for even the high lift and chivalr crusad of old time were not content to travers two thousand mile of land to fight for their holi sepulchr , without commit burglari , pick pocket , and gain other piou perquisit by the way . had they been strictli held to their one final and romant object -- that final and romant object , too mani would have turn from in disgust . I will not strip these men , thought ahab , of all hope of cash -- aye , cash . they may scorn cash now ; but let some month go by , and no perspect promis of it to them , and then thi same quiescent cash all at onc mutini in them , thi same cash would soon cashier ahab . nor wa there want still anoth precautionari motiv more relat to ahab person . have impuls , it is probabl , and perhap somewhat prematur reveal the prime but privat purpos of the pequod ' s voyag , ahab wa now entir consciou that , in so do , he had indirectli laid himself open to the unanswer charg of usurp ; and with perfect impun , both moral and legal , hi crew if so dispos , and to that end compet , could refus all further obedi to him , and even violent wrest from him the command . from even the bare hint imput of usurp , and the possibl consequ of such a suppress impress gain ground , ahab must of cours have been most anxiou to protect himself . that protect could onli consist in hi own predomin brain and heart and hand , back by a heed , close calcul attent to everi minut atmospher influenc which it wa possibl for hi crew to be subject to . for all these reason then , and other perhap too analyt to be verbal develop here , ahab plainli saw that he must still in a good degre continu true to the natur , nomin purpos of the pequod ' s voyag ; observ all customari usag ; and not onli that , but forc himself to evinc all hi well known passion interest in the gener pursuit of hi profess . Be all thi as it may , hi voic wa now often heard hail the three mast - head and admonish them to keep a bright look - out , and not omit report even a porpois . thi vigil wa not long without reward . chapter 47 the mat - maker . It wa a cloudi , sultri afternoon ; the seamen were lazili loung about the deck , or vacantli gaze over into the lead - colour water . queequeg and I were mildli employ weav what is call a sword - mat , for an addit lash to our boat . So still and subdu and yet somehow prelud wa all the scene , and such an incant of reveri lurk in the air , that each silent sailor seem resolv into hi own invis self . I wa the attend or page of queequeg , while busi at the mat . As I kept pass and repass the fill or woof of marlin between the long yarn of the warp , use my own hand for the shuttl , and as queequeg , stand sideway , ever and anon slid hi heavi oaken sword between the thread , and idli look off upon the water , carelessli and unthinkingli drove home everi yarn : I say so strang a dreami did there then reign all over the ship and all over the sea , onli broken by the intermit dull sound of the sword , that it seem as if thi were the loom of time , and I myself were a shuttl mechan weav and weav away at the fate . there lay the fix thread of the warp subject to but one singl , ever return , unchang vibrat , and that vibrat mere enough to admit of the crosswis interblend of other thread with it own . thi warp seem necess ; and here , thought I , with my own hand I pli my own shuttl and weav my own destini into these unalter thread . meantim , queequeg ' s impuls , indiffer sword , sometim hit the woof slantingli , or crookedli , or strongli , or weakli , as the case might be ; and by thi differ in the conclud blow produc a correspond contrast in the final aspect of the complet fabric ; thi savag ' s sword , thought I , which thu final shape and fashion both warp and woof ; thi easi , indiffer sword must be chanc -- aye , chanc , free will , and necess -- nowis incompat -- all interweavingli work togeth . the straight warp of necess , not to be swerv from it ultim cours -- it everi altern vibrat , inde , onli tend to that ; free will still free to pli her shuttl between given thread ; and chanc , though restrain in it play within the right line of necess , and sideway in it motion direct by free will , though thu prescrib to by both , chanc by turn rule either , and ha the last featur blow at event . thu we were weav and weav away when I start at a sound so strang , long drawn , and music wild and unearthli , that the ball of free will drop from my hand , and I stood gaze up at the cloud whenc that voic drop like a wing . high aloft in the cross - tree wa that mad gay - header , tashtego . hi bodi wa reach eagerli forward , hi hand stretch out like a wand , and at brief sudden interv he continu hi cri . To be sure the same sound wa that veri moment perhap be heard all over the sea , from hundr of whalemen ' s look - out perch as high in the air ; but from few of those lung could that accustom old cri have deriv such a marvel cadenc as from tashtego the indian ' s . As he stood hover over you half suspend in air , so wildli and eagerli peer toward the horizon , you would have thought him some prophet or seer behold the shadow of fate , and by those wild cri announc their come . `` there she blow ! there ! there ! there ! she blow ! she blow ! '' `` where - away ? '' `` On the lee - beam , about two mile off ! a school of them ! '' instantli all wa commot . the sperm whale blow as a clock tick , with the same undevi and reliabl uniform . and therebi whalemen distinguish thi fish from other tribe of hi genu . `` there go fluke ! '' wa now the cri from tashtego ; and the whale disappear . `` quick , steward ! '' cri ahab . `` time ! time ! '' dough - boy hurri below , glanc at the watch , and report the exact minut to ahab . the ship wa now kept away from the wind , and she went gentli roll befor it . tashtego report that the whale had gone down head to leeward , we confid look to see them again directli in advanc of our bow . for that singular craft at time evinc by the sperm whale when , sound with hi head in one direct , he nevertheless , while conceal beneath the surfac , mill round , and swiftli swim off in the opposit quarter -- thi deceit of hi could not now be in action ; for there wa no reason to suppos that the fish seen by tashtego had been in ani way alarm , or inde knew at all of our vicin . one of the men select for shipkeep -- that is , those not appoint to the boat , by thi time reliev the indian at the main - mast head . the sailor at the fore and mizzen had come down ; the line tub were fix in their place ; the crane were thrust out ; the mainyard wa back , and the three boat swung over the sea like three samphir basket over high cliff . outsid of the bulwark their eager crew with one hand clung to the rail , while one foot wa expectantli pois on the gunwal . So look the long line of man - of - war ' s men about to throw themselv on board an enemi ' s ship . but at thi critic instant a sudden exclam wa heard that took everi eye from the whale . with a start all glare at dark ahab , who wa surround by five duski phantom that seem fresh form out of air . chapter 48 the first lower . the phantom , for so they then seem , were flit on the other side of the deck , and , with a noiseless celer , were cast loos the tackl and band of the boat which swung there . thi boat had alway been deem one of the spare boat , though technic call the captain ' s , on account of it hang from the starboard quarter . the figur that now stood by it bow wa tall and swart , with one white tooth evilli protrud from it steel - like lip . A rumpl chines jacket of black cotton funer invest him , with wide black trowser of the same dark stuff . but strang crown thi ebon wa a glisten white plait turban , the live hair braid and coil round and round upon hi head . less swart in aspect , the companion of thi figur were of that vivid , tiger - yellow complexion peculiar to some of the aborigin nativ of the manilla ; -- a race notori for a certain diabol of subtilti , and by some honest white marin suppos to be the paid spi and secret confidenti agent on the water of the devil , their lord , whose count - room they suppos to be elsewher . while yet the wonder ship ' s compani were gaze upon these stranger , ahab cri out to the white - turban old man at their head , `` all readi there , fedallah ? '' `` readi , '' wa the half - hiss repli . `` lower away then ; d ' ye hear ? '' shout across the deck . `` lower away there , I say . '' such wa the thunder of hi voic , that spite of their amaz the men sprang over the rail ; the sheav whirl round in the block ; with a wallow , the three boat drop into the sea ; while , with a dexter , off - hand dare , unknown in ani other vocat , the sailor , goat - like , leap down the roll ship ' s side into the toss boat below . hardli had they pull out from under the ship ' s lee , when a fourth keel , come from the windward side , pull round under the stern , and show the five stranger row ahab , who , stand erect in the stern , loudli hail starbuck , stubb , and flask , to spread themselv wide , so as to cover a larg expans of water . but with all their eye again rivet upon the swart fedallah and hi crew , the inmat of the other boat obey not the command . `` captain ahab ? -- '' said starbuck . `` spread yourselv , '' cri ahab ; `` give way , all four boat . thou , flask , pull out more to leeward ! '' `` aye , aye , sir , '' cheerili cri littl king - post , sweep round hi great steer oar . `` lay back ! '' address hi crew . `` there ! -- there ! -- there again ! there she blow right ahead , boy ! -- lay back ! '' `` never heed yonder yellow boy , archi . '' `` Oh , I don ' t mind ' em , sir , '' said archi ; `` I knew it all befor now . didn ' t I hear ' em in the hold ? and didn ' t I tell cabaco here of it ? what say ye , cabaco ? they are stowaway , Mr . flask . '' `` pull , pull , my fine heart - aliv ; pull , my children ; pull , my littl one , '' drawlingli and soothingli sigh stubb to hi crew , some of whom still show sign of uneasi . `` whi don ' t you break your backbon , my boy ? what is it you stare at ? those chap in yonder boat ? tut ! they are onli five more hand come to help us -- never mind from where -- the more the merrier . pull , then , do pull ; never mind the brimston -- devil are good fellow enough . So , so ; there you are now ; that ' s the stroke for a thousand pound ; that ' s the stroke to sweep the stake ! hurrah for the gold cup of sperm oil , my hero ! three cheer , men -- all heart aliv ! easi , easi ; don ' t be in a hurri -- don ' t be in a hurri . whi don ' t you snap your oar , you rascal ? bite someth , you dog ! So , so , so , then : -- softli , softli ! that ' s it -- that ' s it ! long and strong . give way there , give way ! the devil fetch ye , ye ragamuffin rapscallion ; ye are all asleep . stop snore , ye sleeper , and pull . pull , will ye ? pull , can ' t ye ? pull , won ' t ye ? whi in the name of gudgeon and ginger - cake don ' t ye pull ? -- pull and break someth ! pull , and start your eye out ! here ! '' whip out the sharp knife from hi girdl ; `` everi mother ' s son of ye draw hi knife , and pull with the blade between hi teeth . that ' s it -- that ' s it . now ye do someth ; that look like it , my steel - bit . start her -- start her , my silver - spoon ! start her , marl - spike ! '' stubb ' s exordium to hi crew is given here at larg , becaus he had rather a peculiar way of talk to them in gener , and especi in inculc the religion of row . but you must not suppos from thi specimen of hi sermon that he ever flew into downright passion with hi congreg . not at all ; and therein consist hi chief peculiar . He would say the most terrif thing to hi crew , in a tone so strang compound of fun and furi , and the furi seem so calcul mere as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invoc without pull for dear life , and yet pull for the mere joke of the thing . besid he all the time look so easi and indol himself , so loungingli manag hi steer - oar , and so broadli gape -- open - mouth at time -- that the mere sight of such a yawn command , by sheer forc of contrast , act like a charm upon the crew . then again , stubb wa one of those odd sort of humorist , whose jolliti is sometim so curious ambigu , as to put all inferior on their guard in the matter of obey them . In obedi to a sign from ahab , starbuck wa now pull obliqu across stubb ' s bow ; and when for a minut or so the two boat were pretti near to each other , stubb hail the mate . `` Mr . starbuck ! larboard boat there , ahoy ! a word with ye , sir , if ye pleas ! '' `` halloa ! '' return starbuck , turn round not a singl inch as he spoke ; still earnestli but whisperingli urg hi crew ; hi face set like a flint from stubb ' s . `` what think ye of those yellow boy , sir ! `` smuggl on board , somehow , befor the ship sail . ( strong , strong , boy ! ) '' in a whisper to hi crew , then speak out loud again : `` A sad busi , Mr . stubb ! ( seeth her , seeth her , my lad ! ) but never mind , Mr . stubb , all for the best . let all your crew pull strong , come what will . ( spring , my men , spring ! ) there ' s hogshead of sperm ahead , Mr . stubb , and that ' s what ye came for . ( pull , my boy ! ) sperm , sperm ' s the play ! thi at least is duti ; duti and profit hand in hand . '' `` aye , aye , I thought as much , '' soliloqu stubb , when the boat diverg , `` as soon as I clapt eye on ' em , I thought so . aye , and that ' s what he went into the after hold for , so often , as dough - boy long suspect . they were hidden down there . the white whale ' s at the bottom of it . well , well , so be it ! can ' t be help ! all right ! give way , men ! It ain ' t the white whale to - day ! give way ! '' now the advent of these outlandish stranger at such a critic instant as the lower of the boat from the deck , thi had not unreason awaken a sort of superstiti amaz in some of the ship ' s compani ; but archi ' s fanci discoveri have some time previou got abroad among them , though inde not credit then , thi had in some small measur prepar them for the event . It took off the extrem edg of their wonder ; and so what with all thi and stubb ' s confid way of account for their appear , they were for the time freed from superstiti surmis ; though the affair still left abund room for all manner of wild conjectur as to dark ahab ' s precis agenc in the matter from the begin . for me , I silent recal the mysteri shadow I had seen creep on board the pequod dure the dim nantucket dawn , as well as the enigmat hint of the unaccount elijah . meantim , ahab , out of hear of hi offic , have side the furthest to windward , wa still rang ahead of the other boat ; a circumst bespeak how potent a crew wa pull him . those tiger yellow creatur of hi seem all steel and whalebon ; like five trip - hammer they rose and fell with regular stroke of strength , which period start the boat along the water like a horizont burst boiler out of a mississippi steamer . As for fedallah , who wa seen pull the harpoon oar , he had thrown asid hi black jacket , and display hi nake chest with the whole part of hi bodi abov the gunwal , clearli cut against the altern depress of the wateri horizon ; while at the other end of the boat ahab , with one arm , like a fencer ' s , thrown half backward into the air , as if to counterbal ani tendenc to trip ; ahab wa seen steadili manag hi steer oar as in a thousand boat lower ere the white whale had torn him . all at onc the outstretch arm gave a peculiar motion and then remain fix , while the boat ' s five oar were seen simultan peak . boat and crew sat motionless on the sea . instantli the three spread boat in the rear paus on their way . the whale had irregularli settl bodili down into the blue , thu give no distantli discern token of the movement , though from hi closer vicin ahab had observ it . `` everi man look out along hi oar ! '' cri starbuck . `` thou , queequeg , stand up ! '' nimbl spring up on the triangular rais box in the bow , the savag stood erect there , and with intens eager eye gaze off toward the spot where the chase had last been descri . likewis upon the extrem stern of the boat where it wa also triangularli platform level with the gunwal , starbuck himself wa seen coolli and adroitli balanc himself to the jerk toss of hi chip of a craft , and silent eye the vast blue eye of the sea . not veri far distant flask ' s boat wa also lie breathlessli still ; it command recklessli stand upon the top of the loggerhead , a stout sort of post root in the keel , and rise some two feet abov the level of the stern platform . It is use for catch turn with the whale line . it top is not more spaciou than the palm of a man ' s hand , and stand upon such a base as that , flask seem perch at the mast - head of some ship which had sunk to all but her truck . but littl king - post wa small and short , and at the same time littl king - post wa full of a larg and tall ambit , so that thi loggerhead stand - point of hi did by no mean satisfi king - post . `` I can ' t see three sea off ; tip us up an oar there , and let me on to that . '' upon thi , daggoo , with either hand upon the gunwal to steadi hi way , swiftli slid aft , and then erect himself volunt hi lofti shoulder for a pedest . `` good a mast - head as ani , sir . will you mount ? '' `` that I will , and thank ye veri much , my fine fellow ; onli I wish you fifti feet taller . '' whereupon plant hi feet firmli against two opposit plank of the boat , the gigant negro , stoop a littl , present hi flat palm to flask ' s foot , and then put flask ' s hand on hi hears - plume head and bid him spring as he himself should toss , with one dexter fling land the littl man high and dri on hi shoulder . and here wa flask now stand , daggoo with one lift arm furnish him with a breastband to lean against and steadi himself by . At ani time it is a strang sight to the tyro to see with what wondrou habitud of unconsci skill the whaleman will maintain an erect postur in hi boat , even when pitch about by the most riotous pervers and cross - run sea . still more strang to see him giddili perch upon the loggerhead itself , under such circumst . but the sight of littl flask mount upon gigant daggoo wa yet more curiou ; for sustain himself with a cool , indiffer , easi , unthought of , barbar majesti , the nobl negro to everi roll of the sea harmoni roll hi fine form . On hi broad back , flaxen - hair flask seem a snow - flake . the bearer look nobler than the rider . though truli vivaci , tumultu , ostentati littl flask would now and then stamp with impati ; but not one ad heav did he therebi give to the negro ' s lordli chest . So have I seen passion and vaniti stamp the live magnanim earth , but the earth did not alter her tide and her season for that . meanwhil stubb , the third mate , betray no such far - gaze solicitud . the whale might have made one of their regular sound , not a temporari dive from mere fright ; and if that were the case , stubb , as hi wont in such case , it seem , wa resolv to solac the languish interv with hi pipe . He withdrew it from hi hatband , where he alway wore it aslant like a feather . He load it , and ram home the load with hi thumb - end ; but hardli had he ignit hi match across the rough sandpap of hi hand , when tashtego , hi harpoon , whose eye had been set to windward like two fix star , suddenli drop like light from hi erect attitud to hi seat , cri out in a quick phrensi of hurri , `` down , down all , and give way ! -- there they are ! '' To a landsman , no whale , nor ani sign of a her , would have been visibl at that moment ; noth but a troubl bit of greenish white water , and thin scatter puff of vapour hover over it , and suffusingli blow off to leeward , like the confus scud from white roll billow . the air around suddenli vibrat and tingl , as it were , like the air over intens heat plate of iron . beneath thi atmospher wave and curl , and partial beneath a thin layer of water , also , the whale were swim . seen in advanc of all the other indic , the puff of vapour they spout , seem their forerun courier and detach fli outrid . all four boat were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubl water and air . but it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblend bubbl born down a rapid stream from the hill . `` pull , pull , my good boy , '' said starbuck , in the lowest possibl but intensest concentr whisper to hi men ; while the sharp fix glanc from hi eye dart straight ahead of the bow , almost seem as two visibl needl in two uner binnacl compass . He did not say much to hi crew , though , nor did hi crew say anyth to him . onli the silenc of the boat wa at interv startlingli pierc by one of hi peculiar whisper , now harsh with command , now soft with entreati . how differ the loud littl king - post . `` sing out and say someth , my hearti . roar and pull , my thunderbolt ! beach me , beach me on their black back , boy ; onli do that for me , and I ' ll sign over to you my martha ' s vineyard plantat , boy ; includ wife and children , boy . lay me on -- lay me on ! O lord , lord ! but I shall go stark , stare mad ! see ! see that white water ! '' and so shout , he pull hi hat from hi head , and stamp up and down on it ; then pick it up , flirt it far off upon the sea ; and final fell to rear and plung in the boat ' s stern like a craze colt from the prairi . `` look at that chap now , '' philosoph drawl stubb , who , with hi unlight short pipe , mechan retain between hi teeth , at a short distanc , follow after -- '' He ' s got fit , that flask ha . fit ? ye , give him fit -- that ' s the veri word -- pitch fit into ' em . merrili , merrili , heart - aliv . pud for supper , you know ; -- merri ' s the word . pull , babe -- pull , suckl -- pull , all . but what the devil are you hurri about ? softli , softli , and steadili , my men . onli pull , and keep pull ; noth more . crack all your backbon , and bite your knive in two -- that ' s all . take it easi -- whi don ' t ye take it easi , I say , and burst all your liver and lung ! '' but what it wa that inscrut ahab said to that tiger - yellow crew of hi -- these were word best omit here ; for you live under the bless light of the evangel land . onli the infidel shark in the audaci sea may give ear to such word , when , with tornado brow , and eye of red murder , and foam - glu lip , ahab leap after hi prey . meanwhil , all the boat tore on . the repeat specif allus of flask to `` that whale , '' as he call the fictiti monster which he declar to be incessantli tantal hi boat ' s bow with it tail -- these allus of hi were at time so vivid and life - like , that they would caus some one or two of hi men to snatch a fear look over the shoulder . but thi wa against all rule ; for the oarsmen must put out their eye , and ram a skewer through their neck ; usag pronounc that they must have no organ but ear , and no limb but arm , in these critic moment . It wa a sight full of quick wonder and awe ! the vast swell of the omnipot sea ; the surg , hollow roar they made , as they roll along the eight gunwal , like gigant bowl in a boundless bowl - green ; the brief suspend agoni of the boat , as it would tip for an instant on the knife - like edg of the sharper wave , that almost seem threaten to cut it in two ; the sudden profound dip into the wateri glen and hollow ; the keen spur and goad to gain the top of the opposit hill ; the headlong , sled - like slide down it other side ; -- all these , with the cri of the headsmen and harpoon , and the shudder gasp of the oarsmen , with the wondrou sight of the ivori pequod bear down upon her boat with outstretch sail , like a wild hen after her scream brood ; -- all thi wa thrill . not the raw recruit , march from the bosom of hi wife into the fever heat of hi first battl ; not the dead man ' s ghost encount the first unknown phantom in the other world ; -- neither of these can feel stranger and stronger emot than that man doe , who for the first time find himself pull into the charm , churn circl of the hunt sperm whale . the danc white water made by the chase wa now becom more and more visibl , owe to the increas dark of the dun cloud - shadow flung upon the sea . the jet of vapour no longer blend , but tilt everywher to right and left ; the whale seem separ their wake . the boat were pull more apart ; starbuck give chase to three whale run dead to leeward . our sail wa now set , and , with the still rise wind , we rush along ; the boat go with such mad through the water , that the lee oar could scarc be work rapidli enough to escap be torn from the row - lock . soon we were run through a suffus wide veil of mist ; neither ship nor boat to be seen . `` give way , men , '' whisper starbuck , draw still further aft the sheet of hi sail ; `` there is time to kill a fish yet befor the squall come . there ' s white water again ! -- close to ! spring ! '' soon after , two cri in quick success on each side of us denot that the other boat had got fast ; but hardli were they overheard , when with a lightn - like hurtl whisper starbuck said : `` stand up ! '' and queequeg , harpoon in hand , sprang to hi feet . though not one of the oarsmen wa then face the life and death peril so close to them ahead , yet with their eye on the intens counten of the mate in the stern of the boat , they knew that the immin instant had come ; they heard , too , an enorm wallow sound as of fifti eleph stir in their litter . meanwhil the boat wa still boom through the mist , the wave curl and hiss around us like the erect crest of enrag serpent . `` that ' s hi hump . there , there , give it to him ! '' whisper starbuck . A short rush sound leap out of the boat ; it wa the dart iron of queequeg . then all in one weld commot came an invis push from astern , while forward the boat seem strike on a ledg ; the sail collaps and explod ; a gush of scald vapour shot up near by ; someth roll and tumbl like an earthquak beneath us . the whole crew were half suffoc as they were toss helter - skelter into the white curdl cream of the squall . squall , whale , and harpoon had all blend togeth ; and the whale , mere graze by the iron , escap . though complet swamp , the boat wa nearli unharm . swim round it we pick up the float oar , and lash them across the gunwal , tumbl back to our place . there we sat up to our knee in the sea , the water cover everi rib and plank , so that to our downward gaze eye the suspend craft seem a coral boat grown up to us from the bottom of the ocean . the wind increas to a howl ; the wave dash their buckler togeth ; the whole squall roar , fork , and crackl around us like a white fire upon the prairi , in which , unconsum , we were burn ; immort in these jaw of death ! In vain we hail the other boat ; as well roar to the live coal down the chimney of a flame furnac as hail those boat in that storm . meanwhil the drive scud , rack , and mist , grew darker with the shadow of night ; no sign of the ship could be seen . the rise sea forbad all attempt to bale out the boat . the oar were useless as propel , perform now the offic of life - preserv . So , cut the lash of the waterproof match keg , after mani failur starbuck contriv to ignit the lamp in the lantern ; then stretch it on a waif pole , hand it to queequeg as the standard - bearer of thi forlorn hope . there , then , he sat , hold up that imbecil candl in the heart of that almighti forlorn . there , then , he sat , the sign and symbol of a man without faith , hopelessli hold up hope in the midst of despair . wet , drench through , and shiver cold , despair of ship or boat , we lift up our eye as the dawn came on . the mist still spread over the sea , the empti lantern lay crush in the bottom of the boat . suddenli queequeg start to hi feet , hollow hi hand to hi ear . We all heard a faint creak , as of rope and yard hitherto muffl by the storm . the sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mist were dimli part by a huge , vagu form . affright , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loom into view , bear right down upon us within a distanc of not much more than it length . float on the wave we saw the abandon boat , as for one instant it toss and gape beneath the ship ' s bow like a chip at the base of a cataract ; and then the vast hull roll over it , and it wa seen no more till it came up welter astern . again we swam for it , were dash against it by the sea , and were at last taken up and safe land on board . ere the squall came close to , the other boat had cut loos from their fish and return to the ship in good time . the ship had given us up , but wa still cruis , if hapli it might light upon some token of our perish , -- an oar or a lanc pole . chapter 49 the hyena . there are certain queer time and occas in thi strang mix affair we call life when a man take thi whole univers for a vast practic joke , though the wit thereof he but dimli discern , and more than suspect that the joke is at nobodi ' s expens but hi own . howev , noth dispirit , and noth seem worth while disput . He bolt down all event , all creed , and belief , and persuas , all hard thing visibl and invis , never mind how knobbi ; as an ostrich of potent digest gobbl down bullet and gun flint . and as for small difficulti and worri , prospect of sudden disast , peril of life and limb ; all these , and death itself , seem to him onli sli , good - natur hit , and jolli punch in the side bestow by the unseen and unaccount old joker . that odd sort of wayward mood I am speak of , come over a man onli in some time of extrem tribul ; it come in the veri midst of hi earnest , so that what just befor might have seem to him a thing most moment , now seem but a part of the gener joke . there is noth like the peril of whale to breed thi free and easi sort of genial , desperado philosophi ; and with it I now regard thi whole voyag of the pequod , and the great white whale it object . `` queequeg , '' said I , when they had drag me , the last man , to the deck , and I wa still shake myself in my jacket to fling off the water ; `` queequeg , my fine friend , doe thi sort of thing often happen ? '' without much emot , though soak through just like me , he gave me to understand that such thing did often happen . `` Mr . stubb , '' said I , turn to that worthi , who , button up in hi oil - jacket , wa now calmli smoke hi pipe in the rain ; `` Mr . stubb , I think I have heard you say that of all whalemen you ever met , our chief mate , Mr . starbuck , is by far the most care and prudent . I suppos then , that go plump on a fli whale with your sail set in a foggi squall is the height of a whaleman ' s discret ? '' `` certain . I ' ve lower for whale from a leak ship in a gale off cape horn . '' `` Mr . flask , '' said I , turn to littl king - post , who wa stand close by ; `` you are experienc in these thing , and I am not . will you tell me whether it is an unalter law in thi fisheri , Mr . flask , for an oarsman to break hi own back pull himself back - foremost into death ' s jaw ? '' `` can ' t you twist that smaller ? '' said flask . `` ye , that ' s the law . I should like to see a boat ' s crew back water up to a whale face foremost . Ha , ha ! the whale would give them squint for squint , mind that ! '' here then , from three imparti wit , I had a deliber statement of the entir case . consid , therefor , that squall and capsiz in the water and consequ bivouack on the deep , were matter of common occurr in thi kind of life ; consid that at the superl critic instant of go on to the whale I must resign my life into the hand of him who steer the boat -- oftentim a fellow who at that veri moment is in hi impetu upon the point of scuttl the craft with hi own frantic stamp ; consid that the particular disast to our own particular boat wa chiefli to be imput to starbuck ' s drive on to hi whale almost in the teeth of a squall , and consid that starbuck , notwithstand , wa famou for hi great heed in the fisheri ; consid that I belong to thi uncommonli prudent starbuck ' s boat ; and final consid in what a devil ' s chase I wa implic , touch the white whale : take all thing togeth , I say , I thought I might as well go below and make a rough draft of my will . `` queequeg , '' said I , `` come along , you shall be my lawyer , executor , and legate . '' It may seem strang that of all men sailor should be tinker at their last will and testament , but there are no peopl in the world more fond of that divers . thi wa the fourth time in my nautic life that I had done the same thing . after the ceremoni wa conclud upon the present occas , I felt all the easier ; a stone wa roll away from my heart . besid , all the day I should now live would be as good as the day that lazaru live after hi resurrect ; a supplementari clean gain of so mani month or week as the case might be . I surviv myself ; my death and burial were lock up in my chest . I look round me tranquilli and contentedli , like a quiet ghost with a clean conscienc sit insid the bar of a snug famili vault . now then , thought I , unconsci roll up the sleev of my frock , here goe for a cool , collect dive at death and destruct , and the devil fetch the hindmost . chapter 50 ahab ' s boat and crew . fedallah . `` who would have thought it , flask ! '' cri stubb ; `` if I had but one leg you would not catch me in a boat , unless mayb to stop the plug - hole with my timber toe . Oh ! he ' s a wonder old man ! '' `` I don ' t think it so strang , after all , on that account , '' said flask . `` If hi leg were off at the hip , now , it would be a differ thing . that would disabl him ; but he ha one knee , and good part of the other left , you know . '' `` I don ' t know that , my littl man ; I never yet saw him kneel . '' among whale - wise peopl it ha often been argu whether , consid the paramount import of hi life to the success of the voyag , it is right for a whale captain to jeopard that life in the activ peril of the chase . So tamerlan ' s soldier often argu with tear in their eye , whether that invalu life of hi ought to be carri into the thickest of the fight . but with ahab the question assum a modifi aspect . consid that with two leg man is but a hobbl wight in all time of danger ; consid that the pursuit of whale is alway under great and extraordinari difficulti ; that everi individu moment , inde , then compris a peril ; under these circumst is it wise for ani maim man to enter a whale - boat in the hunt ? As a gener thing , the joint - owner of the pequod must have plainli thought not . ahab well knew that although hi friend at home would think littl of hi enter a boat in certain compar harmless vicissitud of the chase , for the sake of be near the scene of action and give hi order in person , yet for captain ahab to have a boat actual apport to him as a regular headsman in the hunt -- abov all for captain ahab to be suppli with five extra men , as that same boat ' s crew , he well knew that such gener conceit never enter the head of the owner of the pequod . therefor he had not solicit a boat ' s crew from them , nor had he in ani way hint hi desir on that head . nevertheless he had taken privat measur of hi own touch all that matter . until cabaco ' s publish discoveri , the sailor had littl foreseen it , though to be sure when , after be a littl while out of port , all hand had conclud the customari busi of fit the whaleboat for servic ; when some time after thi ahab wa now and then found bestir himself in the matter of make thole - pin with hi own hand for what wa thought to be one of the spare boat , and even solicit cut the small wooden skewer , which when the line is run out are pin over the groov in the bow : when all thi wa observ in him , and particularli hi solicitud in have an extra coat of sheath in the bottom of the boat , as if to make it better withstand the point pressur of hi ivori limb ; and also the anxieti he evinc in exactli shape the thigh board , or clumsi cleat , as it is sometim call , the horizont piec in the boat ' s bow for brace the knee against in dart or stab at the whale ; when it wa observ how often he stood up in that boat with hi solitari knee fix in the semi - circular depress in the cleat , and with the carpent ' s chisel goug out a littl here and straighten it a littl there ; all these thing , I say , had awaken much interest and curios at the time . but almost everybodi suppos that thi particular prepar heed in ahab must onli be with a view to the ultim chase of mobi dick ; for he had alreadi reveal hi intent to hunt that mortal monster in person . but such a supposit did by no mean involv the remotest suspicion as to ani boat ' s crew be assign to that boat . now , with the subordin phantom , what wonder remain soon wane away ; for in a whaler wonder soon wane . besid , now and then such unaccount odd and end of strang nation come up from the unknown nook and ash - hole of the earth to man these float outlaw of whaler ; and the ship themselv often pick up such queer castaway creatur found toss about the open sea on plank , bit of wreck , oar , whaleboat , cano , blown - off japanes junk , and what not ; that beelzebub himself might climb up the side and step down into the cabin to chat with the captain , and it would not creat ani unsubdu excit in the forecastl . but be all thi as it may , certain it is that while the subordin phantom soon found their place among the crew , though still as it were somehow distinct from them , yet that hair - turban fedallah remain a muffl mysteri to the last . whenc he came in a mannerli world like thi , by what sort of unaccount tie he soon evinc himself to be link with ahab ' s peculiar fortun ; nay , so far as to have some sort of a half - hint influenc ; heaven know , but it might have been even author over him ; all thi none knew . but one can not sustain an indiffer air concern fedallah . He wa such a creatur as civil , domest peopl in the temper zone onli see in their dream , and that but dimli ; but the like of whom now and then glide among the unchang asiat commun , especi the orient isl to the east of the contin -- those insul , immemori , unalter countri , which even in these modern day still preserv much of the ghostli aborigin of earth ' s primal gener , when the memori of the first man wa a distinct recollect , and all men hi descend , unknow whenc he came , eye each other as real phantom , and ask of the sun and the moon whi they were creat and to what end ; when though , accord to genesi , the angel inde consort with the daughter of men , the devil also , add the uncanon rabbin , indulg in mundan amour . chapter 51 the spirit - spout . day , week pass , and under easi sail , the ivori pequod had slowli swept across four sever cruis - ground ; that off the azor ; off the cape de verd ; on the plate ( so call ) , be off the mouth of the rio de la plata ; and the carrol ground , an unstak , wateri local , southerli from St . helena . It wa while glide through these latter water that one seren and moonlight night , when all the wave roll by like scroll of silver ; and , by their soft , suffus seeth , made what seem a silveri silenc , not a solitud ; on such a silent night a silveri jet wa seen far in advanc of the white bubbl at the bow . lit up by the moon , it look celesti ; seem some plume and glitter god upris from the sea . fedallah first descri thi jet . for of these moonlight night , it wa hi wont to mount to the main - mast head , and stand a look - out there , with the same precis as if it had been day . and yet , though herd of whale were seen by night , not one whaleman in a hundr would ventur a lower for them . you may think with what emot , then , the seamen beheld thi old orient perch aloft at such unusu hour ; hi turban and the moon , companion in one sky . but when , after spend hi uniform interv there for sever success night without utter a singl sound ; when , after all thi silenc , hi unearthli voic wa heard announc that silveri , moon - lit jet , everi reclin marin start to hi feet as if some wing spirit had light in the rig , and hail the mortal crew . `` there she blow ! '' had the trump of judgment blown , they could not have quiver more ; yet still they felt no terror ; rather pleasur . for though it wa a most unwont hour , yet so impress wa the cri , and so deliri excit , that almost everi soul on board instinct desir a lower . walk the deck with quick , side - lung stride , ahab command the t ' gallant sail and royal to be set , and everi stunsail spread . the best man in the ship must take the helm . then , with everi mast - head man , the pile - up craft roll down befor the wind . the strang , upheav , lift tendenc of the taffrail breez fill the hollow of so mani sail , made the buoyant , hover deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rush along , as if two antagonist influenc were struggl in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingli to some horizont goal . and had you watch ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two differ thing were war . while hi one live leg made live echo along the deck , everi stroke of hi dead limb sound like a coffin - tap . On life and death thi old man walk . but though the ship so swiftli sped , and though from everi eye , like arrow , the eager glanc shot , yet the silveri jet wa no more seen that night . everi sailor swore he saw it onc , but not a second time . thi midnight - spout had almost grown a forgotten thing , when , some day after , lo ! at the same silent hour , it wa again announc : again it wa descri by all ; but upon make sail to overtak it , onc more it disappear as if it had never been . and so it serv us night after night , till no one heed it but to wonder at it . mysteri jet into the clear moonlight , or starlight , as the case might be ; disappear again for one whole day , or two day , or three ; and somehow seem at everi distinct repetit to be advanc still further and further in our van , thi solitari jet seem for ever allur us on . nor with the immemori superstit of their race , and in accord with the preternatur , as it seem , which in mani thing invest the pequod , were there want some of the seamen who swore that whenev and wherev descri ; at howev remot time , or in howev far apart latitud and longitud , that unnear spout wa cast by one self - same whale ; and that whale , mobi dick . for a time , there reign , too , a sens of peculiar dread at thi flit apparit , as if it were treacher beckon us on and on , in order that the monster might turn round upon us , and rend us at last in the remotest and most savag sea . these temporari apprehens , so vagu but so aw , deriv a wondrou potenc from the contrast seren of the weather , in which , beneath all it blue bland , some thought there lurk a devilish charm , as for day and day we voyag along , through sea so wearili , lonesom mild , that all space , in repugn to our veng errand , seem vacat itself of life befor our urn - like prow . but , at last , when turn to the eastward , the cape wind began howl around us , and we rose and fell upon the long , troubl sea that are there ; when the ivori - tusk pequod sharpli bow to the blast , and gore the dark wave in her mad , till , like shower of silver chip , the foam - flake flew over her bulwark ; then all thi desol vacuiti of life went away , but gave place to sight more dismal than befor . close to our bow , strang form in the water dart hither and thither befor us ; while thick in our rear flew the inscrut sea - raven . and everi morn , perch on our stay , row of these bird were seen ; and spite of our hoot , for a long time obstin clung to the hemp , as though they deem our ship some drift , uninhabit craft ; a thing appoint to desol , and therefor fit roost - place for their homeless selv . and heav and heav , still unrestingli heav the black sea , as if it vast tide were a conscienc ; and the great mundan soul were in anguish and remors for the long sin and suffer it had bred . cape of good hope , do they call ye ? rather cape tormentoto , as call of yore ; for long allur by the perfidi silenc that befor had attend us , we found ourselv launch into thi torment sea , where guilti be transform into those fowl and these fish , seem condemn to swim on everlastingli without ani haven in store , or beat that black air without ani horizon . but calm , snow - white , and unvari ; still direct it fountain of feather to the sky ; still beckon us on from befor , the solitari jet would at time be descri . dure all thi black of the element , ahab , though assum for the time the almost continu command of the drench and danger deck , manifest the gloomiest reserv ; and more seldom than ever address hi mate . In tempestu time like these , after everyth abov and aloft ha been secur , noth more can be done but passiv to await the issu of the gale . then captain and crew becom practic fatalist . So , with hi ivori leg insert into it accustom hole , and with one hand firmli grasp a shroud , ahab for hour and hour would stand gaze dead to windward , while an occasion squall of sleet or snow would all but congeal hi veri eyelash togeth . meantim , the crew driven from the forward part of the ship by the peril sea that burstingli broke over it bow , stood in a line along the bulwark in the waist ; and the better to guard against the leap wave , each man had slip himself into a sort of bowlin secur to the rail , in which he swung as in a loosen belt . few or no word were spoken ; and the silent ship , as if man by paint sailor in wax , day after day tore on through all the swift mad and glad of the demoniac wave . By night the same mute of human befor the shriek of the ocean prevail ; still in silenc the men swung in the bowlin ; still wordless ahab stood up to the blast . even when weari natur seem demand repos he would not seek that repos in hi hammock . never could starbuck forget the old man ' s aspect , when one night go down into the cabin to mark how the baromet stood , he saw him with close eye sit straight in hi floor - screw chair ; the rain and half - melt sleet of the storm from which he had some time befor emerg , still slowli drip from the unremov hat and coat . On the tabl besid him lay unrol one of those chart of tide and current which have previous been spoken of . hi lantern swung from hi tightli clench hand . though the bodi wa erect , the head wa thrown back so that the close eye were point toward the needl of the tell - tale that swung from a beam in the ceil . * * the cabin - compass is call the tell - tale , becaus without go to the compass at the helm , the captain , while below , can inform himself of the cours of the ship . terribl old man ! thought starbuck with a shudder , sleep in thi gale , still thou steadfastli eyest thi purpos . chapter 52 the albatross . south - eastward from the cape , off the distant crozett , a good cruis ground for right whalemen , a sail loom ahead , the goney ( albatross ) by name . As she slowli drew nigh , from my lofti perch at the fore - mast - head , I had a good view of that sight so remark to a tyro in the far ocean fisheri -- a whaler at sea , and long absent from home . As if the wave had been fuller , thi craft wa bleach like the skeleton of a strand walru . all down her side , thi spectral appear wa trace with long channel of redden rust , while all her spar and her rig were like the thick branch of tree fur over with hoar - frost . onli her lower sail were set . A wild sight it wa to see her long - beard look - out at those three mast - head . they seem clad in the skin of beast , so torn and bepatch the raiment that had surviv nearli four year of cruis . stand in iron hoop nail to the mast , they sway and swung over a fathomless sea ; and though , when the ship slowli glide close under our stern , we six men in the air came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leap from the mast - head of one ship to those of the other ; yet , those forlorn - look fishermen , mildli eye us as they pass , said not one word to our own look - out , while the quarter - deck hail wa be heard from below . `` ship ahoy ! have ye seen the white whale ? '' but as the strang captain , lean over the pallid bulwark , wa in the act of put hi trumpet to hi mouth , it somehow fell from hi hand into the sea ; and the wind now rise amain , he in vain strove to make himself heard without it . meantim hi ship wa still increas the distanc between . while in variou silent way the seamen of the pequod were evinc their observ of thi omin incid at the first mere mention of the white whale ' s name to anoth ship , ahab for a moment paus ; it almost seem as though he would have lower a boat to board the stranger , had not the threaten wind forbad . but take advantag of hi windward posit , he again seiz hi trumpet , and know by her aspect that the stranger vessel wa a nantucket and shortli bound home , he loudli hail -- '' ahoy there ! thi is the pequod , bound round the world ! tell them to address all futur letter to the pacif ocean ! and thi time three year , if I am not at home , tell them to address them to -- '' At that moment the two wake were fairli cross , and instantli , then , in accord with their singular way , shoal of small harmless fish , that for some day befor had been placidli swim by our side , dart away with what seem shudder fin , and rang themselv fore and aft with the stranger ' s flank . though in the cours of hi continu voyag ahab must often befor have notic a similar sight , yet , to ani monomaniac man , the veriest trifl caprici carri mean . `` swim away from me , do ye ? '' murmur ahab , gaze over into the water . there seem but littl in the word , but the tone convey more of deep helpless sad than the insan old man had ever befor evinc . but turn to the steersman , who thu far had been hold the ship in the wind to diminish her headway , he cri out in hi old lion voic , -- '' Up helm ! keep her off round the world ! '' round the world ! there is much in that sound to inspir proud feel ; but whereto doe all that circumnavig conduct ? onli through numberless peril to the veri point whenc we start , where those that we left behind secur , were all the time befor us . were thi world an endless plain , and by sail eastward we could for ever reach new distanc , and discov sight more sweet and strang than ani cyclad or island of king solomon , then there were promis in the voyag . but in pursuit of those far mysteri we dream of , or in torment chase of that demon phantom that , some time or other , swim befor all human heart ; while chase such over thi round globe , they either lead us on in barren maze or midway leav us whelm . chapter 53 the gam . the ostens reason whi ahab did not go on board of the whaler we had spoken wa thi : the wind and sea betoken storm . but even had thi not been the case , he would not after all , perhap , have board her -- judg by hi subsequ conduct on similar occas -- if so it had been that , by the process of hail , he had obtain a neg answer to the question he put . for , as it eventu turn out , he care not to consort , even for five minut , with ani stranger captain , except he could contribut some of that inform he so absorbingli sought . but all thi might remain inadequ estim , were not someth said here of the peculiar usag of whale - vessel when meet each other in foreign sea , and especi on a common cruis - ground . If two stranger cross the pine barren in new york state , or the equal desol salisburi plain in england ; if casual encount each other in such inhospit wild , these twain , for the life of them , can not well avoid a mutual salut ; and stop for a moment to interchang the news ; and , perhap , sit down for a while and rest in concert : then , how much more natur that upon the illimit pine barren and salisburi plain of the sea , two whale vessel descri each other at the end of the earth -- off lone fan ' s island , or the far away king ' s mill ; how much more natur , I say , that under such circumst these ship should not onli interchang hail , but come into still closer , more friendli and sociabl contact . and especi would thi seem to be a matter of cours , in the case of vessel own in one seaport , and whose captain , offic , and not a few of the men are person known to each other ; and consequ , have all sort of dear domest thing to talk about . for the long absent ship , the outward - bounder , perhap , ha letter on board ; at ani rate , she will be sure to let her have some paper of a date a year or two later than the last one on her blur and thumb - worn file . and in return for that courtesi , the outward - bound ship would receiv the latest whale intellig from the cruis - ground to which she may be destin , a thing of the utmost import to her . and in degre , all thi will hold true concern whale vessel cross each other ' s track on the cruis - ground itself , even though they are equal long absent from home . for one of them may have receiv a transfer of letter from some third , and now far remot vessel ; and some of those letter may be for the peopl of the ship she now meet . besid , they would exchang the whale news , and have an agreeabl chat . for not onli would they meet with all the sympathi of sailor , but likewis with all the peculiar congeni aris from a common pursuit and mutual share privat and peril . nor would differ of countri make ani veri essenti differ ; that is , so long as both parti speak one languag , as is the case with american and english . though , to be sure , from the small number of english whaler , such meet do not veri often occur , and when they do occur there is too apt to be a sort of shyness between them ; for your englishman is rather reserv , and your yanke , he doe not fanci that sort of thing in anybodi but himself . besid , the english whaler sometim affect a kind of metropolitan superior over the american whaler ; regard the long , lean nantucket , with hi nondescript provinci , as a sort of sea - peasant . but where thi superior in the english whalemen doe realli consist , it would be hard to say , see that the yanke in one day , collect , kill more whale than all the english , collect , in ten year . but thi is a harmless littl foibl in the english whale - hunter , which the nantucket doe not take much to heart ; probabl , becaus he know that he ha a few foibl himself . So , then , we see that of all ship separ sail the sea , the whaler have most reason to be sociabl -- and they are so . wherea , some merchant ship cross each other ' s wake in the mid - atlant , will oftentim pass on without so much as a singl word of recognit , mutual cut each other on the high sea , like a brace of dandi in broadway ; and all the time indulg , perhap , in finic critic upon each other ' s rig . As for men - of - war , when they chanc to meet at sea , they first go through such a string of silli bow and scrape , such a duck of ensign , that there doe not seem to be much right - down hearti good - will and brotherli love about it at all . As touch slave - ship meet , whi , they are in such a prodigi hurri , they run away from each other as soon as possibl . and as for pirat , when they chanc to cross each other ' s cross - bone , the first hail is -- '' how mani skull ? '' -- the same way that whaler hail -- '' how mani barrel ? '' and that question onc answer , pirat straightway steer apart , for they are infern villain on both side , and don ' t like to see overmuch of each other ' s villan like . but look at the godli , honest , unostentati , hospit , sociabl , free - and - easi whaler ! what doe the whaler do when she meet anoth whaler in ani sort of decent weather ? she ha a `` gam , '' a thing so utterli unknown to all other ship that they never heard of the name even ; and if by chanc they should hear of it , they onli grin at it , and repeat gamesom stuff about `` spouter `` and `` blubber - boiler , '' and such like pretti exclam . whi it is that all merchant - seamen , and also all pirat and man - of - war ' s men , and slave - ship sailor , cherish such a scorn feel toward whale - ship ; thi is a question it would be hard to answer . becaus , in the case of pirat , say , I should like to know whether that profess of their ha ani peculiar glori about it . It sometim end in uncommon elev , inde ; but onli at the gallow . and besid , when a man is elev in that odd fashion , he ha no proper foundat for hi superior altitud . henc , I conclud , that in boast himself to be high lift abov a whaleman , in that assert the pirat ha no solid basi to stand on . but what is a gam ? you might wear out your index - finger run up and down the column of dictionari , and never find the word . Dr . johnson never attain to that erudit ; noah webster ' s ark doe not hold it . nevertheless , thi same express word ha now for mani year been in constant use among some fifteen thousand true born yanke . certainli , it need a definit , and should be incorpor into the lexicon . with that view , let me learnedli defin it . gam . noun -- A social meet OF two ( OR more ) whaleship , gener ON A cruis - ground ; when , after exchang hail , they exchang visit BY boat ' crew ; the two captain remain , for the time , ON board OF one ship , and the two chief mate ON the other . there is anoth littl item about gam which must not be forgotten here . all profess have their own littl peculiar of detail ; so ha the whale fisheri . In a pirat , man - of - war , or slave ship , when the captain is row anywher in hi boat , he alway sit in the stern sheet on a comfort , sometim cushion seat there , and often steer himself with a pretti littl millin ' s tiller decor with gay cord and ribbon . but the whale - boat ha no seat astern , no sofa of that sort whatev , and no tiller at all . high time inde , if whale captain were wheel about the water on castor like gouti old aldermen in patent chair . and as for a tiller , the whale - boat never admit of ani such effeminaci ; and therefor as in gam a complet boat ' s crew must leav the ship , and henc as the boat steerer or harpoon is of the number , that subordin is the steersman upon the occas , and the captain , have no place to sit in , is pull off to hi visit all stand like a pine tree . and often you will notic that be consciou of the eye of the whole visibl world rest on him from the side of the two ship , thi stand captain is all aliv to the import of sustain hi digniti by maintain hi leg . nor is thi ani veri easi matter ; for in hi rear is the immens project steer oar hit him now and then in the small of hi back , the after - oar reciproc by rap hi knee in front . He is thu complet wedg befor and behind , and can onli expand himself sideway by settl down on hi stretch leg ; but a sudden , violent pitch of the boat will often go far to toppl him , becaus length of foundat is noth without correspond breadth . mere make a spread angl of two pole , and you can not stand them up . then , again , it would never do in plain sight of the world ' s rivet eye , it would never do , I say , for thi straddl captain to be seen steadi himself the slightest particl by catch hold of anyth with hi hand ; inde , as token of hi entir , buoyant self - command , he gener carri hi hand in hi trowser ' pocket ; but perhap be gener veri larg , heavi hand , he carri them there for ballast . nevertheless there have occur instanc , well authent one too , where the captain ha been known for an uncommonli critic moment or two , in a sudden squall say -- to seiz hold of the nearest oarsman ' s hair , and hold on there like grim death . chapter 54 the town - Ho ' s stori . ( AS told AT the golden inn ) the cape of good hope , and all the wateri region round about there , is much like some note four corner of a great highway , where you meet more travel than in ani other part . It wa not veri long after speak the goney that anoth homeward - bound whaleman , the town - Ho , * wa encount . she wa man almost wholli by polynesian . In the short gam that ensu she gave us strong news of mobi dick . To some the gener interest in the white whale wa now wildli heighten by a circumst of the town - Ho ' s stori , which seem obscur to involv with the whale a certain wondrou , invert visit of one of those so call judgment of god which at time are said to overtak some men . thi latter circumst , with it own particular accompani , form what may be call the secret part of the tragedi about to be narrat , never reach the ear of captain ahab or hi mate . for that secret part of the stori wa unknown to the captain of the town - Ho himself . It wa the privat properti of three confeder white seamen of that ship , one of whom , it seem , commun it to tashtego with romish injunct of secreci , but the follow night tashtego rambl in hi sleep , and reveal so much of it in that way , that when he wa waken he could not well withhold the rest . nevertheless , so potent an influenc did thi thing have on those seamen in the pequod who came to the full knowledg of it , and by such a strang delicaci , to call it so , were they govern in thi matter , that they kept the secret among themselv so that it never transpir abaft the pequod ' s main - mast . interweav in it proper place thi darker thread with the stori as publicli narrat on the ship , the whole of thi strang affair I now proceed to put on last record . * the ancient whale - cri upon first sight a whale from the mast - head , still use by whalemen in hunt the famou gallipago terrapin . for my humor ' s sake , I shall preserv the style in which I onc narrat it at lima , to a loung circl of my spanish friend , one saint ' s eve , smoke upon the thick - gilt tile piazza of the golden inn . Of those fine cavali , the young don , pedro and sebastian , were on the closer term with me ; and henc the interlud question they occasion put , and which are duli answer at the time . `` some two year prior to my first learn the event which I am about rehears to you , gentlemen , the town - Ho , sperm whaler of nantucket , wa cruis in your pacif here , not veri mani day ' sail eastward from the eav of thi good golden inn . she wa somewher to the northward of the line . one morn upon handl the pump , accord to daili usag , it wa observ that she made more water in her hold than common . they suppos a sword - fish had stab her , gentlemen . but the captain , have some unusu reason for believ that rare good luck await him in those latitud ; and therefor be veri avers to quit them , and the leak not be then consid at all danger , though , inde , they could not find it after search the hold as low down as wa possibl in rather heavi weather , the ship still continu her cruis , the marin work at the pump at wide and easi interv ; but no good luck came ; more day went by , and not onli wa the leak yet undiscov , but it sensibl increas . So much so , that now take some alarm , the captain , make all sail , stood away for the nearest harbor among the island , there to have hi hull hove out and repair . `` though no small passag wa befor her , yet , if the commonest chanc favour , he did not at all fear that hi ship would founder by the way , becaus hi pump were of the best , and be period reliev at them , those six - and - thirti men of hi could easili keep the ship free ; never mind if the leak should doubl on her . In truth , well nigh the whole of thi passag be attend by veri prosper breez , the town - Ho had all but certainli arriv in perfect safeti at her port without the occurr of the least fatal , had it not been for the brutal overbear of radney , the mate , a vineyard , and the bitterli provok vengeanc of steelkilt , a lakeman and desperado from buffalo . `` ' lakeman ! -- buffalo ! pray , what is a lakeman , and where is buffalo ? ' said don sebastian , rise in hi swing mat of grass . `` On the eastern shore of our lake eri , don ; but -- I crave your courtesi -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . now , gentlemen , in squar - sail brig and three - mast ship , well - nigh as larg and stout as ani that ever sail out of your old callao to far manilla ; thi lakeman , in the land - lock heart of our america , had yet been nurtur by all those agrarian freeboot impress popularli connect with the open ocean . for in their interflow aggreg , those grand fresh - water sea of our , -- eri , and ontario , and huron , and superior , and michigan , -- possess an ocean - like expans , with mani of the ocean ' s noblest trait ; with mani of it rim varieti of race and of clime . they contain round archipelago of romant isl , even as the polynesian water do ; in larg part , are shore by two great contrast nation , as the atlant is ; they furnish long maritim approach to our numer territori coloni from the east , dot all round their bank ; here and there are frown upon by batteri , and by the goat - like craggi gun of lofti mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunder of naval victori ; at interv , they yield their beach to wild barbarian , whose red paint face flash from out their peltri wigwam ; for leagu and leagu are flank by ancient and unent forest , where the gaunt pine stand like serri line of king in gothic genealog ; those same wood harbor wild afric beast of prey , and silken creatur whose export fur give robe to tartar emperor ; they mirror the pave capit of buffalo and cleveland , as well as winnebago villag ; they float alik the full - rig merchant ship , the arm cruiser of the state , the steamer , and the beech cano ; they are swept by borean and dismast blast as dire as ani that lash the salt wave ; they know what shipwreck are , for out of sight of land , howev inland , they have drown full mani a midnight ship with all it shriek crew . thu , gentlemen , though an inland , steelkilt wa wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtur ; as much of an audaci marin as ani . and for radney , though in hi infanc he may have laid him down on the lone nantucket beach , to nurs at hi matern sea ; though in after life he had long follow our auster atlant and your contempl pacif ; yet wa he quit as veng and full of social quarrel as the backwood seaman , fresh from the latitud of buck - horn handl bowi - knive . yet wa thi nantucket a man with some good - heart trait ; and thi lakeman , a marin , who though a sort of devil inde , might yet by inflex firm , onli temper by that common decenc of human recognit which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thu treat , thi steelkilt had long been retain harmless and docil . At all event , he had prove so thu far ; but radney wa doom and made mad , and steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear . `` It wa not more than a day or two at the furthest after point her prow for her island haven , that the town - Ho ' s leak seem again increas , but onli so as to requir an hour or more at the pump everi day . you must know that in a settl and civil ocean like our atlant , for exampl , some skipper think littl of pump their whole way across it ; though of a still , sleepi night , should the offic of the deck happen to forget hi duti in that respect , the probabl would be that he and hi shipmat would never again rememb it , on account of all hand gentli subsid to the bottom . nor in the solitari and savag sea far from you to the westward , gentlemen , is it altogeth unusu for ship to keep clang at their pump - handl in full choru even for a voyag of consider length ; that is , if it lie along a toler access coast , or if ani other reason retreat is afford them . It is onli when a leaki vessel is in some veri out of the way part of those water , some realli landless latitud , that her captain begin to feel a littl anxiou . `` much thi way had it been with the town - Ho ; so when her leak wa found gain onc more , there wa in truth some small concern manifest by sever of her compani ; especi by radney the mate . He command the upper sail to be well hoist , sheet home anew , and everi way expand to the breez . now thi radney , I suppos , wa as littl of a coward , and as littl inclin to ani sort of nervou apprehens touch hi own person as ani fearless , unthink creatur on land or on sea that you can conveni imagin , gentlemen . therefor when he betray thi solicitud about the safeti of the ship , some of the seamen declar that it wa onli on account of hi be a part owner in her . So when they were work that even at the pump , there wa on thi head no small gamesom slili go on among them , as they stood with their feet continu overflow by the rippl clear water ; clear as ani mountain spring , gentlemen -- that bubbl from the pump ran across the deck , and pour itself out in steadi spout at the lee scupper - hole . `` now , as you well know , it is not seldom the case in thi convent world of our -- wateri or otherwis ; that when a person place in command over hi fellow - men find one of them to be veri significantli hi superior in gener pride of manhood , straightway against that man he conceiv an unconquer dislik and bitter ; and if he have a chanc he will pull down and pulver that subaltern ' s tower , and make a littl heap of dust of it . Be thi conceit of mine as it may , gentlemen , at all event steelkilt wa a tall and nobl anim with a head like a roman , and a flow golden beard like the tassel hous of your last viceroy ' s snort charger ; and a brain , and a heart , and a soul in him , gentlemen , which had made steelkilt charlemagn , had he been born son to charlemagn ' s father . but radney , the mate , wa ugli as a mule ; yet as hardi , as stubborn , as malici . He did not love steelkilt , and steelkilt knew it . `` espi the mate draw near as he wa toil at the pump with the rest , the lakeman affect not to notic him , but unaw , went on with hi gay banter . `` ' aye , aye , my merri lad , it ' s a live leak thi ; hold a cannikin , one of ye , and let ' s have a tast . By the lord , it ' s worth bottl ! I tell ye what , men , old rad ' s invest must go for it ! he had best cut away hi part of the hull and tow it home . the fact is , boy , that sword - fish onli began the job ; he ' s come back again with a gang of ship - carpent , saw - fish , and file - fish , and what not ; and the whole poss of ' em are now hard at work cut and slash at the bottom ; make improv , I suppos . If old rad were here now , I ' d tell him to jump overboard and scatter ' em . they ' re play the devil with hi estat , I can tell him . but he ' s a simpl old soul , -- rad , and a beauti too . boy , they say the rest of hi properti is invest in look - glass . I wonder if he ' d give a poor devil like me the model of hi nose . ' `` ' damn your eye ! what ' s that pump stop for ? ' roar radney , pretend not to have heard the sailor ' talk . ' thunder away at it ! ' ' aye , aye , sir , ' said steelkilt , merri as a cricket . ' live , boy , live , now ! ' and with that the pump clang like fifti fire - engin ; the men toss their hat off to it , and ere long that peculiar gasp of the lung wa heard which denot the fullest tension of life ' s utmost energi . `` quit the pump at last , with the rest of hi band , the lakeman went forward all pant , and sat himself down on the windlass ; hi face fieri red , hi eye bloodshot , and wipe the profus sweat from hi brow . now what cozen fiend it wa , gentlemen , that possess radney to meddl with such a man in that corpor exasper state , I know not ; but so it happen . intoler stride along the deck , the mate command him to get a broom and sweep down the plank , and also a shovel , and remov some offens matter consequ upon allow a pig to run at larg . `` now , gentlemen , sweep a ship ' s deck at sea is a piec of household work which in all time but rage gale is regularli attend to everi even ; it ha been known to be done in the case of ship actual founder at the time . such , gentlemen , is the inflex of sea - usag and the instinct love of neat in seamen ; some of whom would not willingli drown without first wash their face . but in all vessel thi broom busi is the prescript provinc of the boy , if boy there be aboard . besid , it wa the stronger men in the town - Ho that had been divid into gang , take turn at the pump ; and be the most athlet seaman of them all , steelkilt had been regularli assign captain of one of the gang ; consequ he should have been freed from ani trivial busi not connect with truli nautic duti , such be the case with hi comrad . I mention all these particular so that you may understand exactli how thi affair stood between the two men . `` but there wa more than thi : the order about the shovel wa almost as plainli meant to sting and insult steelkilt , as though radney had spat in hi face . ani man who ha gone sailor in a whale - ship will understand thi ; and all thi and doubtless much more , the lakeman fulli comprehend when the mate utter hi command . but as he sat still for a moment , and as he steadfastli look into the mate ' s malign eye and perceiv the stack of powder - cask heap up in him and the slow - match silent burn along toward them ; as he instinct saw all thi , that strang forbear and unwilling to stir up the deeper passion in ani alreadi ire be -- a repugn most felt , when felt at all , by realli valiant men even when aggriev -- thi nameless phantom feel , gentlemen , stole over steelkilt . `` therefor , in hi ordinari tone , onli a littl broken by the bodili exhaust he wa temporarili in , he answer him say that sweep the deck wa not hi busi , and he would not do it . and then , without at all allud to the shovel , he point to three lad as the customari sweeper ; who , not be billet at the pump , had done littl or noth all day . To thi , radney repli with an oath , in a most domin and outrag manner uncondit reiter hi command ; meanwhil advanc upon the still seat lakeman , with an uplift cooper ' s club hammer which he had snatch from a cask near by . `` heat and irrit as he wa by hi spasmod toil at the pump , for all hi first nameless feel of forbear the sweat steelkilt could but ill brook thi bear in the mate ; but somehow still smother the conflagr within him , without speak he remain doggedli root to hi seat , till at last the incens radney shook the hammer within a few inch of hi face , furious command him to do hi bid . `` steelkilt rose , and slowli retreat round the windlass , steadili follow by the mate with hi menac hammer , deliber repeat hi intent not to obey . see , howev , that hi forbear had not the slightest effect , by an aw and unspeak intim with hi twist hand he warn off the foolish and infatu man ; but it wa to no purpos . and in thi way the two went onc slowli round the windlass ; when , resolv at last no longer to retreat , bethink him that he had now forborn as much as comport with hi humor , the lakeman paus on the hatch and thu spoke to the offic : `` ' Mr . radney , I will not obey you . take that hammer away , or look to yourself . ' but the predestin mate come still closer to him , where the lakeman stood fix , now shook the heavi hammer within an inch of hi teeth ; meanwhil repeat a string of insuffer maledict . retreat not the thousandth part of an inch ; stab him in the eye with the unflinch poniard of hi glanc , steelkilt , clench hi right hand behind him and creepingli draw it back , told hi persecutor that if the hammer but graze hi cheek he ( steelkilt ) would murder him . but , gentlemen , the fool had been brand for the slaughter by the god . immedi the hammer touch the cheek ; the next instant the lower jaw of the mate wa stove in hi head ; he fell on the hatch spout blood like a whale . `` ere the cri could go aft steelkilt wa shake one of the backstay lead far aloft to where two of hi comrad were stand their masthead . they were both canal . `` ' canal ! ' cri don pedro . ' We have seen mani whale - ship in our harbour , but never heard of your canal . pardon : who and what are they ? ' `` ' canal , don , are the boatmen belong to our grand eri canal . you must have heard of it . ' `` ' nay , senor ; hereabout in thi dull , warm , most lazi , and hereditari land , we know but littl of your vigor north . ' `` ' aye ? well then , don , refil my cup . your chicha ' s veri fine ; and ere proceed further I will tell ye what our canal are ; for such inform may throw side - light upon my stori . ' `` for three hundr and sixti mile , gentlemen , through the entir breadth of the state of new york ; through numer popul citi and most thrive villag ; through long , dismal , uninhabit swamp , and affluent , cultiv field , unrival for fertil ; by billiard - room and bar - room ; through the holi - of - holi of great forest ; on roman arch over indian river ; through sun and shade ; by happi heart or broken ; through all the wide contrast sceneri of those nobl mohawk counti ; and especi , by row of snow - white chapel , whose spire stand almost like mileston , flow one continu stream of venetianli corrupt and often lawless life . there ' s your true ashante , gentlemen ; there howl your pagan ; where you ever find them , next door to you ; under the long - flung shadow , and the snug patronis lee of church . for by some curiou fatal , as it is often note of your metropolitan freeboot that they ever encamp around the hall of justic , so sinner , gentlemen , most abound in holiest vicin . `` ' Is that a friar pass ? ' said don pedro , look downward into the crowd plazza , with humor concern . `` ' well for our northern friend , dame isabella ' s inquisit wane in lima , ' laugh don sebastian . ' proce , senor . ' `` ' A moment ! pardon ! ' cri anoth of the compani . ' In the name of all us limees , I but desir to express to you , sir sailor , that we have by no mean overlook your delicaci in not substitut present lima for distant venic in your corrupt comparison . Oh ! do not bow and look surpris ; you know the proverb all along thi coast -- '' corrupt as lima . '' It but bear out your say , too ; church more plenti than billiard - tabl , and for ever open -- and `` corrupt as lima . '' So , too , venic ; I have been there ; the holi citi of the bless evangelist , St . mark ! -- St . domin , purg it ! your cup ! thank : here I refil ; now , you pour out again . ' `` freeli depict in hi own vocat , gentlemen , the canal would make a fine dramat hero , so abundantli and picturesqu wick is he . like mark antoni , for day and day along hi green - turf , floweri nile , he indol float , openli toy with hi red - cheek cleopatra , ripen hi apricot thigh upon the sunni deck . but ashor , all thi effeminaci is dash . the brigandish guis which the canal so proudli sport ; hi slouch and gaili - ribbon hat betoken hi grand featur . A terror to the smile innoc of the villag through which he float ; hi swart visag and bold swagger are not unshun in citi . onc a vagabond on hi own canal , I have receiv good turn from one of these canal ; I thank him heartili ; would fain be not ungrat ; but it is often one of the prime redeem qualiti of your man of violenc , that at time he ha as stiff an arm to back a poor stranger in a strait , as to plunder a wealthi one . In sum , gentlemen , what the wild of thi canal life is , is emphat evinc by thi ; that our wild whale - fisheri contain so mani of it most finish graduat , and that scarc ani race of mankind , except sydney men , are so much distrust by our whale captain . nor doe it at all diminish the curious of thi matter , that to mani thousand of our rural boy and young men born along it line , the probationari life of the grand canal furnish the sole transit between quietli reap in a christian corn - field , and recklessli plough the water of the most barbar sea . `` ' I see ! I see ! ' impetu exclaim don pedro , spill hi chicha upon hi silveri ruffl . ' No need to travel ! the world ' s one lima . I had thought , now , that at your temper north the gener were cold and holi as the hill . -- but the stori . ' `` I left off , gentlemen , where the lakeman shook the backstay . hardli had he done so , when he wa surround by the three junior mate and the four harpoon , who all crowd him to the deck . but slide down the rope like bale comet , the two canal rush into the uproar , and sought to drag their man out of it toward the forecastl . other of the sailor join with them in thi attempt , and a twist turmoil ensu ; while stand out of harm ' s way , the valiant captain danc up and down with a whale - pike , call upon hi offic to manhandl that atroci scoundrel , and smoke him along to the quarter - deck . At interv , he ran close up to the revolv border of the confus , and pri into the heart of it with hi pike , sought to prick out the object of hi resent . but steelkilt and hi desperado were too much for them all ; they succeed in gain the forecastl deck , where , hastili slew about three or four larg cask in a line with the windlass , these sea - parisian entrench themselv behind the barricad . `` ' come out of that , ye pirat ! ' roar the captain , now menac them with a pistol in each hand , just brought to him by the steward . ' come out of that , ye cut - throat ! ' `` steelkilt leap on the barricad , and stride up and down there , defi the worst the pistol could do ; but gave the captain to understand distinctli , that hi ( steelkilt ' s ) death would be the signal for a murder mutini on the part of all hand . fear in hi heart lest thi might prove but too true , the captain a littl desist , but still command the insurg instantli to return to their duti . `` ' will you promis not to touch us , if we do ? ' demand their ringlead . `` ' turn to ! turn to ! -- I make no promis ; -- to your duti ! Do you want to sink the ship , by knock off at a time like thi ? turn to ! ' and he onc more rais a pistol . `` ' sink the ship ? ' cri steelkilt . ' aye , let her sink . not a man of us turn to , unless you swear not to rais a rope - yarn against us . what say ye , men ? ' turn to hi comrad . A fierc cheer wa their respons . `` the lakeman now patrol the barricad , all the while keep hi eye on the captain , and jerk out such sentenc as these : -- ' It ' s not our fault ; we didn ' t want it ; I told him to take hi hammer away ; it wa boy ' s busi ; he might have known me befor thi ; I told him not to prick the buffalo ; I believ I have broken a finger here against hi curs jaw ; ain ' t those minc knive down in the forecastl there , men ? look to those handspik , my hearti . captain , by god , look to yourself ; say the word ; don ' t be a fool ; forget it all ; we are readi to turn to ; treat us decent , and we ' re your men ; but we won ' t be flog . ' `` ' turn to ! I make no promis , turn to , I say ! ' `` ' look ye , now , ' cri the lakeman , fling out hi arm toward him , ' there are a few of us here ( and I am one of them ) who have ship for the cruis , d ' ye see ; now as you well know , sir , we can claim our discharg as soon as the anchor is down ; so we don ' t want a row ; it ' s not our interest ; we want to be peaceabl ; we are readi to work , but we won ' t be flog . ' `` ' turn to ! ' roar the captain . `` steelkilt glanc round him a moment , and then said : -- ' I tell you what it is now , captain , rather than kill ye , and be hung for such a shabbi rascal , we won ' t lift a hand against ye unless ye attack us ; but till you say the word about not flog us , we don ' t do a hand ' s turn . ' `` ' down into the forecastl then , down with ye , I ' ll keep ye there till ye ' re sick of it . down ye go . ' `` ' shall we ? ' cri the ringlead to hi men . most of them were against it ; but at length , in obedi to steelkilt , they preced him down into their dark den , growlingli disappear , like bear into a cave . `` As the lakeman ' s bare head wa just level with the plank , the captain and hi poss leap the barricad , and rapidli draw over the slide of the scuttl , plant their group of hand upon it , and loudli call for the steward to bring the heavi brass padlock belong to the companionway . then open the slide a littl , the captain whisper someth down the crack , close it , and turn the key upon them -- ten in number -- leav on deck some twenti or more , who thu far had remain neutral . `` all night a wide - awak watch wa kept by all the offic , forward and aft , especi about the forecastl scuttl and fore hatchway ; at which last place it wa fear the insurg might emerg , after break through the bulkhead below . but the hour of dark pass in peac ; the men who still remain at their duti toil hard at the pump , whose clink and clank at interv through the dreari night dismal resound through the ship . `` At sunris the captain went forward , and knock on the deck , summon the prison to work ; but with a yell they refus . water wa then lower down to them , and a coupl of hand of biscuit were toss after it ; when again turn the key upon them and pocket it , the captain return to the quarter - deck . twice everi day for three day thi wa repeat ; but on the fourth morn a confus wrangl , and then a scuffl wa heard , as the customari summon wa deliv ; and suddenli four men burst up from the forecastl , say they were readi to turn to . the fetid close of the air , and a famish diet , unit perhap to some fear of ultim retribut , had constrain them to surrend at discret . embolden by thi , the captain reiter hi demand to the rest , but steelkilt shout up to him a terrif hint to stop hi babbl and betak himself where he belong . On the fifth morn three other of the mutin bolt up into the air from the desper arm below that sought to restrain them . onli three were left . `` ' better turn to , now ? ' said the captain with a heartless jeer . `` ' shut us up again , will ye ! ' cri steelkilt . `` ' Oh certainli , ' the captain , and the key click . `` It wa at thi point , gentlemen , that enrag by the defect of seven of hi former associ , and stung by the mock voic that had last hail him , and madden by hi long entomb in a place as black as the bowel of despair ; it wa then that steelkilt propos to the two canal , thu far appar of one mind with him , to burst out of their hole at the next summon of the garrison ; and arm with their keen minc knive ( long , crescent , heavi implement with a handl at each end ) run amuck from the bowsprit to the taffrail ; and if by ani devilish of desper possibl , seiz the ship . for himself , he would do thi , he said , whether they join him or not . that wa the last night he should spend in that den . but the scheme met with no opposit on the part of the other two ; they swore they were readi for that , or for ani other mad thing , for anyth in short but a surrend . and what wa more , they each insist upon be the first man on deck , when the time to make the rush should come . but to thi their leader as fierc object , reserv that prioriti for himself ; particularli as hi two comrad would not yield , the one to the other , in the matter ; and both of them could not be first , for the ladder would but admit one man at a time . and here , gentlemen , the foul play of these miscreant must come out . `` upon hear the frantic project of their leader , each in hi own separ soul had suddenli light , it would seem , upon the same piec of treacheri , name : to be foremost in break out , in order to be the first of the three , though the last of the ten , to surrend ; and therebi secur whatev small chanc of pardon such conduct might merit . but when steelkilt made known hi determin still to lead them to the last , they in some way , by some subtl chemistri of villani , mix their befor secret treacheri togeth ; and when their leader fell into a doze , verbal open their soul to each other in three sentenc ; and bound the sleeper with cord , and gag him with cord ; and shriek out for the captain at midnight . `` think murder at hand , and smell in the dark for the blood , he and all hi arm mate and harpoon rush for the forecastl . In a few minut the scuttl wa open , and , bound hand and foot , the still struggl ringlead wa shove up into the air by hi perfidi alli , who at onc claim the honour of secur a man who had been fulli ripe for murder . but all these were collar , and drag along the deck like dead cattl ; and , side by side , were seiz up into the mizzen rig , like three quarter of meat , and there they hung till morn . ' damn ye , ' cri the captain , pace to and fro befor them , ' the vultur would not touch ye , ye villain ! ' `` At sunris he summon all hand ; and separ those who had rebel from those who had taken no part in the mutini , he told the former that he had a good mind to flog them all round -- thought , upon the whole , he would do so -- he ought to -- justic demand it ; but for the present , consid their time surrend , he would let them go with a reprimand , which he accordingli administ in the vernacular . `` ' but as for you , ye carrion rogu , ' turn to the three men in the rig -- ' for you , I mean to minc ye up for the tri - pot ; ' and , seiz a rope , he appli it with all hi might to the back of the two traitor , till they yell no more , but lifelessli hung their head sideway , as the two crucifi thiev are drawn . `` ' My wrist is sprain with ye ! ' he cri , at last ; ' but there is still rope enough left for you , my fine bantam , that wouldn ' t give up . take that gag from hi mouth , and let us hear what he can say for himself . ' `` for a moment the exhaust mutin made a tremul motion of hi cramp jaw , and then pain twist round hi head , said in a sort of hiss , ' what I say is thi -- and mind it well -- if you flog me , I murder you ! ' `` ' say ye so ? then see how ye frighten me ' -- and the captain drew off with the rope to strike . `` ' best not , ' hiss the lakeman . `` ' but I must , ' -- and the rope wa onc more drawn back for the stroke . `` steelkilt here hiss out someth , inaud to all but the captain ; who , to the amaz of all hand , start back , pace the deck rapidli two or three time , and then suddenli throw down hi rope , said , ' I won ' t do it -- let him go -- cut him down : d ' ye hear ? ' but as the junior mate were hurri to execut the order , a pale man , with a bandag head , arrest them -- radney the chief mate . ever sinc the blow , he had lain in hi berth ; but that morn , hear the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thu far had watch the whole scene . such wa the state of hi mouth , that he could hardli speak ; but mumbl someth about hi be will and abl to do what the captain dare not attempt , he snatch the rope and advanc to hi pinion foe . `` ' you are a coward ! ' hiss the lakeman . `` ' So I am , but take that . ' the mate wa in the veri act of strike , when anoth hiss stay hi uplift arm . He paus : and then paus no more , made good hi word , spite of steelkilt ' s threat , whatev that might have been . the three men were then cut down , all hand were turn to , and , sullenli work by the moodi seamen , the iron pump clang as befor . `` just after dark that day , when one watch had retir below , a clamor wa heard in the forecastl ; and the two trembl traitor run up , besieg the cabin door , say they durst not consort with the crew . entreati , cuff , and kick could not drive them back , so at their own instanc they were put down in the ship ' s run for salvat . still , no sign of mutini reappear among the rest . On the contrari , it seem , that mainli at steelkilt ' s instig , they had resolv to maintain the strictest peac , obey all order to the last , and , when the ship reach port , desert her in a bodi . but in order to insur the speediest end to the voyag , they all agre to anoth thing -- name , not to sing out for whale , in case ani should be discov . for , spite of her leak , and spite of all her other peril , the town - Ho still maintain her mast - head , and her captain wa just as will to lower for a fish that moment , as on the day hi craft first struck the cruis ground ; and radney the mate wa quit as readi to chang hi berth for a boat , and with hi bandag mouth seek to gag in death the vital jaw of the whale . `` but though the lakeman had induc the seamen to adopt thi sort of passiv in their conduct , he kept hi own counsel ( at least till all wa over ) concern hi own proper and privat reveng upon the man who had stung him in the ventricl of hi heart . He wa in radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatu man sought to run more than half way to meet hi doom , after the scene at the rig , he insist , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resum the head of hi watch at night . upon thi , and one or two other circumst , steelkilt systemat built the plan of hi reveng . `` dure the night , radney had an unseamanlik way of sit on the bulwark of the quarter - deck , and lean hi arm upon the gunwal of the boat which wa hoist up there , a littl abov the ship ' s side . In thi attitud , it wa well known , he sometim doze . there wa a consider vacanc between the boat and the ship , and down between thi wa the sea . steelkilt calcul hi time , and found that hi next trick at the helm would come round at two o ' clock , in the morn of the third day from that in which he had been betray . At hi leisur , he employ the interv in braid someth veri care in hi watch below . `` ' what are you make there ? ' said a shipmat . `` ' what do you think ? what doe it look like ? ' `` ' like a lanyard for your bag ; but it ' s an odd one , seem to me . ' ' ye , rather oddish , ' said the lakeman , hold it at arm ' s length befor him ; ' but I think it will answer . shipmat , I haven ' t enough twine , -- have you ani ? ' `` but there wa none in the forecastl . `` ' then I must get some from old rad ; ' and he rose to go aft . `` ' you don ' t mean to go a beg to him ! ' said a sailor . `` ' whi not ? Do you think he won ' t do me a turn , when it ' s to help himself in the end , shipmat ? ' and go to the mate , he look at him quietli , and ask him for some twine to mend hi hammock . It wa given him -- neither twine nor lanyard were seen again ; but the next night an iron ball , close net , partli roll from the pocket of the lakeman ' s monkey jacket , as he wa tuck the coat into hi hammock for a pillow . twenti - four hour after , hi trick at the silent helm -- nigh to the man who wa apt to doze over the grave alway readi dug to the seaman ' s hand -- that fatal hour wa then to come ; and in the fore - ordain soul of steelkilt , the mate wa alreadi stark and stretch as a corps , with hi forehead crush in . `` but , gentlemen , a fool save the would - be murder from the bloodi deed he had plan . yet complet reveng he had , and without be the aveng . for by a mysteri fatal , heaven itself seem to step in to take out of hi hand into it own the damn thing he would have done . `` It wa just between daybreak and sunris of the morn of the second day , when they were wash down the deck , that a stupid teneriff man , draw water in the main - chain , all at onc shout out , ' there she roll ! there she roll ! ' jesu , what a whale ! It wa mobi dick . `` ' mobi dick ! ' cri don sebastian ; ' St . domin ! sir sailor , but do whale have christen ? whom call you mobi dick ? ' `` ' A veri white , and famou , and most deadli immort monster , don ; -- but that would be too long a stori . ' `` ' how ? how ? ' cri all the young spaniard , crowd . `` ' nay , don , don -- nay , nay ! I can not rehears that now . let me get more into the air , sir . ' `` ' the chicha ! the chicha ! ' cri don pedro ; ' our vigor friend look faint ; -- fill up hi empti glass ! ' `` No need , gentlemen ; one moment , and I proceed . -- now , gentlemen , so suddenli perceiv the snowi whale within fifti yard of the ship -- forget of the compact among the crew -- in the excit of the moment , the teneriff man had instinct and involuntarili lift hi voic for the monster , though for some littl time past it had been plainli beheld from the three sullen mast - head . all wa now a phrensi . ' the white whale -- the white whale ! ' wa the cri from captain , mate , and harpoon , who , undet by fear rumour , were all anxiou to captur so famou and preciou a fish ; while the dog crew eye askanc , and with curs , the appal beauti of the vast milki mass , that lit up by a horizont spangl sun , shift and glisten like a live opal in the blue morn sea . gentlemen , a strang fatal pervad the whole career of these event , as if verili map out befor the world itself wa chart . the mutin wa the bowsman of the mate , and when fast to a fish , it wa hi duti to sit next him , while radney stood up with hi lanc in the prow , and haul in or slacken the line , at the word of command . moreov , when the four boat were lower , the mate ' s got the start ; and none howl more fierc with delight than did steelkilt , as he strain at hi oar . after a stiff pull , their harpoon got fast , and , spear in hand , radney sprang to the bow . He wa alway a furiou man , it seem , in a boat . and now hi bandag cri wa , to beach him on the whale ' s topmost back . noth loath , hi bowsman haul him up and up , through a blind foam that blent two white togeth ; till of a sudden the boat struck as against a sunken ledg , and keel over , spill out the stand mate . that instant , as he fell on the whale ' s slipperi back , the boat right , and wa dash asid by the swell , while radney wa toss over into the sea , on the other flank of the whale . He struck out through the spray , and , for an instant , wa dimli seen through that veil , wildli seek to remov himself from the eye of mobi dick . but the whale rush round in a sudden maelstrom ; seiz the swimmer between hi jaw ; and rear high up with him , plung headlong again , and went down . `` meantim , at the first tap of the boat ' s bottom , the lakeman had slacken the line , so as to drop astern from the whirlpool ; calmli look on , he thought hi own thought . but a sudden , terrif , downward jerk of the boat , quickli brought hi knife to the line . He cut it ; and the whale wa free . but , at some distanc , mobi dick rose again , with some tatter of radney ' s red woollen shirt , caught in the teeth that had destroy him . all four boat gave chase again ; but the whale elud them , and final wholli disappear . `` In good time , the town - Ho reach her port -- a savag , solitari place -- where no civil creatur resid . there , head by the lakeman , all but five or six of the foremastmen deliber desert among the palm ; eventu , as it turn out , seiz a larg doubl war - cano of the savag , and set sail for some other harbor . `` the ship ' s compani be reduc to but a hand , the captain call upon the island to assist him in the labori busi of heav down the ship to stop the leak . but to such unrest vigil over their danger alli wa thi small band of white necessit , both by night and by day , and so extrem wa the hard work they underw , that upon the vessel be readi again for sea , they were in such a weaken condit that the captain durst not put off with them in so heavi a vessel . after take counsel with hi offic , he anchor the ship as far off shore as possibl ; load and ran out hi two cannon from the bow ; stack hi musket on the poop ; and warn the island not to approach the ship at their peril , took one man with him , and set the sail of hi best whale - boat , steer straight befor the wind for tahiti , five hundr mile distant , to procur a reinforc to hi crew . `` On the fourth day of the sail , a larg cano wa descri , which seem to have touch at a low isl of coral . He steer away from it ; but the savag craft bore down on him ; and soon the voic of steelkilt hail him to heav to , or he would run him under water . the captain present a pistol . with one foot on each prow of the yoke war - cano , the lakeman laugh him to scorn ; assur him that if the pistol so much as click in the lock , he would buri him in bubbl and foam . `` ' what do you want of me ? ' cri the captain . `` ' where are you bound ? and for what are you bound ? ' demand steelkilt ; ' no lie . ' `` ' I am bound to tahiti for more men . ' `` ' veri good . let me board you a moment -- I come in peac . ' with that he leap from the cano , swam to the boat ; and climb the gunwal , stood face to face with the captain . `` ' cross your arm , sir ; throw back your head . now , repeat after me . As soon as steelkilt leav me , I swear to beach thi boat on yonder island , and remain there six day . If I do not , may lightn strike me ! ' `` ' A pretti scholar , ' laugh the lakeman . ' adio , senor ! ' and leap into the sea , he swam back to hi comrad . `` watch the boat till it wa fairli beach , and drawn up to the root of the cocoa - nut tree , steelkilt made sail again , and in due time arriv at tahiti , hi own place of destin . there , luck befriend him ; two ship were about to sail for franc , and were providenti in want of precis that number of men which the sailor head . they embark ; and so for ever got the start of their former captain , had he been at all mind to work them legal retribut . `` some ten day after the french ship sail , the whale - boat arriv , and the captain wa forc to enlist some of the more civil tahitian , who had been somewhat use to the sea . charter a small nativ schooner , he return with them to hi vessel ; and find all right there , again resum hi cruis . `` where steelkilt now is , gentlemen , none know ; but upon the island of nantucket , the widow of radney still turn to the sea which refus to give up it dead ; still in dream see the aw white whale that destroy him . `` ' are you through ? ' said don sebastian , quietli . `` ' I am , don . ' `` ' then I entreat you , tell me if to the best of your own convict , thi your stori is in substanc realli true ? It is so pass wonder ! did you get it from an unquestion sourc ? bear with me if I seem to press . ' `` ' also bear with all of us , sir sailor ; for we all join in don sebastian ' s suit , ' cri the compani , with exceed interest . `` ' Is there a copi of the holi evangelist in the golden inn , gentlemen ? ' `` ' nay , ' said don sebastian ; ' but I know a worthi priest near by , who will quickli procur one for me . I go for it ; but are you well advis ? thi may grow too seriou . ' `` ' will you be so good as to bring the priest also , don ? ' `` ' though there are no auto - da - Fe ' s in lima now , ' said one of the compani to anoth ; ' I fear our sailor friend run risk of the archiepiscopaci . let us withdraw more out of the moonlight . I see no need of thi . ' `` ' excus me for run after you , don sebastian ; but may I also beg that you will be particular in procur the largest size evangelist you can . ' ' thi is the priest , he bring you the evangelist , ' said don sebastian , grave , return with a tall and solemn figur . `` ' let me remov my hat . now , vener priest , further into the light , and hold the holi book befor me that I may touch it . `` ' So help me heaven , and on my honour the stori I have told ye , gentlemen , is in substanc and it great item , true . I know it to be true ; it happen on thi ball ; I trod the ship ; I knew the crew ; I have seen and talk with steelkilt sinc the death of radney . ' '' chapter 55 Of the monstrou pictur of whale . I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canva , someth like the true form of the whale as he actual appear to the eye of the whaleman when in hi own absolut bodi the whale is moor alongsid the whale - ship so that he can be fairli step upon there . It may be worth while , therefor , previous to advert to those curiou imaginari portrait of him which even down to the present day confid challeng the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in thi matter , by prove such pictur of the whale all wrong . It may be that the primal sourc of all those pictori delus will be found among the oldest hindoo , egyptian , and grecian sculptur . for ever sinc those invent but unscrupul time when on the marbl panel of templ , the pedest of statu , and on shield , medallion , cup , and coin , the dolphin wa drawn in scale of chain - armor like saladin ' s , and a helmet head like St . georg ' s ; ever sinc then ha someth of the same sort of licens prevail , not onli in most popular pictur of the whale , but in mani scientif present of him . now , by all odd , the most ancient extant portrait anyway purport to be the whale ' s , is to be found in the famou cavern - pagoda of elephanta , in india . the brahmin maintain that in the almost endless sculptur of that immemori pagoda , all the trade and pursuit , everi conceiv avoc of man , were prefigur age befor ani of them actual came into be . No wonder then , that in some sort our nobl profess of whale should have been there shadow forth . the hindoo whale refer to , occur in a separ depart of the wall , depict the incarn of vishnu in the form of leviathan , learnedli known as the mats avatar . but though thi sculptur is half man and half whale , so as onli to give the tail of the latter , yet that small section of him is all wrong . It look more like the taper tail of an anaconda , than the broad palm of the true whale ' s majest fluke . but go to the old galleri , and look now at a great christian painter ' s portrait of thi fish ; for he succe no better than the antediluvian hindoo . It is guido ' s pictur of perseu rescu andromeda from the sea - monster or whale . where did guido get the model of such a strang creatur as that ? nor doe hogarth , in paint the same scene in hi own `` perseu descend , '' make out one whit better . the huge corpul of that hogarthian monster undul on the surfac , scarc draw one inch of water . It ha a sort of howdah on it back , and it distend tusk mouth into which the billow are roll , might be taken for the traitor ' gate lead from the thame by water into the tower . then , there are the prodromu whale of old scotch sibbald , and jonah ' s whale , as depict in the print of old bibl and the cut of old primer . what shall be said of these ? As for the book - binder ' s whale wind like a vine - stalk round the stock of a descend anchor -- as stamp and gild on the back and titl - page of mani book both old and new -- that is a veri picturesqu but pure fabul creatur , imit , I take it , from the like figur on antiqu vase . though univers denomin a dolphin , I nevertheless call thi book - binder ' s fish an attempt at a whale ; becaus it wa so intend when the devic wa first introduc . It wa introduc by an old italian publish somewher about the 15th centuri , dure the reviv of learn ; and in those day , and even down to a compar late period , dolphin were popularli suppos to be a speci of the leviathan . In the vignett and other embellish of some ancient book you will at time meet with veri curiou touch at the whale , where all manner of spout , jet d ' eau , hot spring and cold , saratoga and baden - baden , come bubbl up from hi unexhaust brain . In the titl - page of the origin edit of the `` advanc of learn `` you will find some curiou whale . but quit all these unprofession attempt , let us glanc at those pictur of leviathan purport to be sober , scientif delin , by those who know . In old harri ' s collect of voyag there are some plate of whale extract from a dutch book of voyag , A . D . 1671 , entitl `` A whale voyag to spitzbergen in the ship jona in the whale , peter peterson of friesland , master . '' In one of those plate the whale , like great raft of log , are repres lie among ice - isl , with white bear run over their live back . In anoth plate , the prodigi blunder is made of repres the whale with perpendicular fluke . then again , there is an impos quarto , written by one captain colnett , a post captain in the english navi , entitl `` A voyag round cape horn into the south sea , for the purpos of extend the spermaceti whale fisheri . '' In thi book is an outlin purport to be a `` pictur of a physet or spermaceti whale , drawn by scale from one kill on the coast of mexico , august , 1793 , and hoist on deck . '' I doubt not the captain had thi veraci pictur taken for the benefit of hi marin . To mention but one thing about it , let me say that it ha an eye which appli , accord to the accompani scale , to a full grown sperm whale , would make the eye of that whale a bow - window some five feet long . Ah , my gallant captain , whi did ye not give us jonah look out of that eye ! nor are the most conscienti compil of natur histori for the benefit of the young and tender , free from the same heinous of mistak . look at that popular work `` goldsmith ' s anim natur . '' In the abridg london edit of 1807 , there are plate of an alleg `` whale `` and a `` narwhal . '' I do not wish to seem ineleg , but thi unsightli whale look much like an amput sow ; and , as for the narwhal , one glimps at it is enough to amaz one , that in thi nineteenth centuri such a hippogriff could be palm for genuin upon ani intellig public of schoolboy . then , again , in 1825 , bernard germain , count de laceped , a great naturalist , publish a scientif system whale book , wherein are sever pictur of the differ speci of the leviathan . all these are not onli incorrect , but the pictur of the mysticetu or greenland whale ( that is to say , the right whale ) , even scoresbi , a long experienc man as touch that speci , declar not to have it counterpart in natur . but the place of the cap - sheaf to all thi blunder busi wa reserv for the scientif frederick cuvier , brother to the famou baron . In 1836 , he publish a natur histori of whale , in which he give what he call a pictur of the sperm whale . befor show that pictur to ani nantucket , you had best provid for your summari retreat from nantucket . In a word , frederick cuvier ' s sperm whale is not a sperm whale , but a squash . Of cours , he never had the benefit of a whale voyag ( such men seldom have ) , but whenc he deriv that pictur , who can tell ? perhap he got it as hi scientif predecessor in the same field , desmarest , got one of hi authent abort ; that is , from a chines draw . and what sort of live lad with the pencil those chines are , mani queer cup and saucer inform us . As for the sign - painter ' whale seen in the street hang over the shop of oil - dealer , what shall be said of them ? they are gener richard iii . whale , with dromedari hump , and veri savag ; breakfast on three or four sailor tart , that is whaleboat full of marin : their deform flounder in sea of blood and blue paint . but these manifold mistak in depict the whale are not so veri surpris after all . consid ! most of the scientif draw have been taken from the strand fish ; and these are about as correct as a draw of a wreck ship , with broken back , would correctli repres the nobl anim itself in all it undash pride of hull and spar . though eleph have stood for their full - length , the live leviathan ha never yet fairli float himself for hi portrait . the live whale , in hi full majesti and signific , is onli to be seen at sea in unfathom water ; and afloat the vast bulk of him is out of sight , like a launch line - of - battl ship ; and out of that element it is a thing etern imposs for mortal man to hoist him bodili into the air , so as to preserv all hi mighti swell and undul . and , not to speak of the highli presum differ of contour between a young suck whale and a full - grown platonian leviathan ; yet , even in the case of one of those young suck whale hoist to a ship ' s deck , such is then the outlandish , eel - like , limber , vari shape of him , that hi precis express the devil himself could not catch . but it may be fanci , that from the nake skeleton of the strand whale , accur hint may be deriv touch hi true form . not at all . for it is one of the more curiou thing about thi leviathan , that hi skeleton give veri littl idea of hi gener shape . though jeremi bentham ' s skeleton , which hang for candelabra in the librari of one of hi executor , correctli convey the idea of a burli - brow utilitarian old gentleman , with all jeremi ' s other lead person characterist ; yet noth of thi kind could be infer from ani leviathan ' s articul bone . In fact , as the great hunter say , the mere skeleton of the whale bear the same relat to the fulli invest and pad anim as the insect doe to the chrysali that so roundingli envelop it . thi peculiar is strikingli evinc in the head , as in some part of thi book will be incident shown . It is also veri curious display in the side fin , the bone of which almost exactli answer to the bone of the human hand , minu onli the thumb . thi fin ha four regular bone - finger , the index , middl , ring , and littl finger . but all these are perman lodg in their fleshi cover , as the human finger in an artifici cover . `` howev recklessli the whale may sometim serv us , '' said humor stubb one day , `` he can never be truli said to handl us without mitten . '' for all these reason , then , ani way you may look at it , you must need conclud that the great leviathan is that one creatur in the world which must remain unpaint to the last . true , one portrait may hit the mark much nearer than anoth , but none can hit it with ani veri consider degre of exact . So there is no earthli way of find out precis what the whale realli look like . and the onli mode in which you can deriv even a toler idea of hi live contour , is by go a whale yourself ; but by so do , you run no small risk of be etern stove and sunk by him . wherefor , it seem to me you had best not be too fastidi in your curios touch thi leviathan . chapter 56 Of the less erron pictur of whale , and the true pictur of whale scene . In connexion with the monstrou pictur of whale , I am strongli tempt here to enter upon those still more monstrou stori of them which are to be found in certain book , both ancient and modern , especi in plini , purcha , hackluyt , harri , cuvier , etc . but I pass that matter by . I know of onli four publish outlin of the great sperm whale ; colnett ' s , huggin ' s , frederick cuvier ' s , and beal ' s . In the previou chapter colnett and cuvier have been refer to . huggin ' s is far better than their ; but , by great odd , beal ' s is the best . all beal ' s draw of thi whale are good , except the middl figur in the pictur of three whale in variou attitud , cap hi second chapter . hi frontispiec , boat attack sperm whale , though no doubt calcul to excit the civil sceptic of some parlor men , is admir correct and life - like in it gener effect . some of the sperm whale draw in J . ross brown are pretti correct in contour ; but they are wretchedli engrav . that is not hi fault though . Of the right whale , the best outlin pictur are in scoresbi ; but they are drawn on too small a scale to convey a desir impress . He ha but one pictur of whale scene , and thi is a sad defici , becaus it is by such pictur onli , when at all well done , that you can deriv anyth like a truth idea of the live whale as seen by hi live hunter . but , taken for all in all , by far the finest , though in some detail not the most correct , present of whale and whale scene to be anywher found , are two larg french engrav , well execut , and taken from paint by one garneri . respect , they repres attack on the sperm and right whale . In the first engrav a nobl sperm whale is depict in full majesti of might , just risen beneath the boat from the profund of the ocean , and bear high in the air upon hi back the terrif wreck of the stoven plank . the prow of the boat is partial unbroken , and is drawn just balanc upon the monster ' s spine ; and stand in that prow , for that one singl incomput flash of time , you behold an oarsman , half shroud by the incens boil spout of the whale , and in the act of leap , as if from a precipic . the action of the whole thing is wonder good and true . the half - empti line - tub float on the whiten sea ; the wooden pole of the spill harpoon obliqu bob in it ; the head of the swim crew are scatter about the whale in contrast express of affright ; while in the black stormi distanc the ship is bear down upon the scene . seriou fault might be found with the anatom detail of thi whale , but let that pass ; sinc , for the life of me , I could not draw so good a one . In the second engrav , the boat is in the act of draw alongsid the barnacl flank of a larg run right whale , that roll hi black weedi bulk in the sea like some mossi rock - slide from the patagonian cliff . hi jet are erect , full , and black like soot ; so that from so abound a smoke in the chimney , you would think there must be a brave supper cook in the great bowel below . sea fowl are peck at the small crab , shell - fish , and other sea candi and maccaroni , which the right whale sometim carri on hi pestil back . and all the while the thick - lip leviathan is rush through the deep , leav ton of tumultu white curd in hi wake , and caus the slight boat to rock in the swell like a skiff caught nigh the paddl - wheel of an ocean steamer . thu , the foreground is all rage commot ; but behind , in admir artist contrast , is the glassi level of a sea becalm , the droop unstarch sail of the powerless ship , and the inert mass of a dead whale , a conquer fortress , with the flag of captur lazili hang from the whale - pole insert into hi spout - hole . who garneri the painter is , or wa , I know not . but my life for it he wa either practic convers with hi subject , or els marvel tutor by some experienc whaleman . the french are the lad for paint action . Go and gaze upon all the paint of europ , and where will you find such a galleri of live and breath commot on canva , as in that triumphal hall at versail ; where the behold fight hi way , pell - mell , through the consecut great battl of franc ; where everi sword seem a flash of the northern light , and the success arm king and emperor dash by , like a charg of crown centaur ? not wholli unworthi of a place in that galleri , are these sea battl - piec of garneri . the natur aptitud of the french for seiz the picturesqu of thing seem to be peculiarli evinc in what paint and engrav they have of their whale scene . with not one tenth of england ' s experi in the fisheri , and not the thousandth part of that of the american , they have nevertheless furnish both nation with the onli finish sketch at all capabl of convey the real spirit of the whale hunt . for the most part , the english and american whale draughtsmen seem entir content with present the mechan outlin of thing , such as the vacant profil of the whale ; which , so far as picturesqu of effect is concern , is about tantamount to sketch the profil of a pyramid . even scoresbi , the justli renown right whaleman , after give us a stiff full length of the greenland whale , and three or four delic miniatur of narwhal and porpois , treat us to a seri of classic engrav of boat hook , chop knive , and grapnel ; and with the microscop dilig of a leuwenhoeck submit to the inspect of a shiver world nineti - six fac - simil of magnifi arctic snow crystal . I mean no disparag to the excel voyag ( I honour him for a veteran ) , but in so import a matter it wa certainli an oversight not to have procur for everi crystal a sworn affidavit taken befor a greenland justic of the peac . In addit to those fine engrav from garneri , there are two other french engrav worthi of note , by some one who subscrib himself `` H . durand . '' one of them , though not precis adapt to our present purpos , nevertheless deserv mention on other account . It is a quiet noon - scene among the isl of the pacif ; a french whaler anchor , inshor , in a calm , and lazili take water on board ; the loosen sail of the ship , and the long leav of the palm in the background , both droop togeth in the breezeless air . the effect is veri fine , when consid with refer to it present the hardi fishermen under one of their few aspect of orient repos . the other engrav is quit a differ affair : the ship hove - to upon the open sea , and in the veri heart of the leviathan life , with a right whale alongsid ; the vessel ( in the act of cut - in ) hove over to the monster as if to a quay ; and a boat , hurriedli push off from thi scene of activ , is about give chase to whale in the distanc . the harpoon and lanc lie level for use ; three oarsmen are just set the mast in it hole ; while from a sudden roll of the sea , the littl craft stand half - erect out of the water , like a rear hors . from the ship , the smoke of the torment of the boil whale is go up like the smoke over a villag of smithi ; and to windward , a black cloud , rise up with earnest of squall and rain , seem to quicken the activ of the excit seamen . chapter 57 Of whale in paint ; in teeth ; in wood ; in sheet - iron ; in stone ; in mountain ; in star . On tower - hill , as you go down to the london dock , you may have seen a crippl beggar ( or kedger , as the sailor say ) hold a paint board befor him , repres the tragic scene in which he lost hi leg . there are three whale and three boat ; and one of the boat ( presum to contain the miss leg in all it origin integr ) is be crunch by the jaw of the foremost whale . ani time these ten year , they tell me , ha that man held up that pictur , and exhibit that stump to an incredul world . but the time of hi justif ha now come . hi three whale are as good whale as were ever publish in wap , at ani rate ; and hi stump as unquestion a stump as ani you will find in the western clear . but , though for ever mount on that stump , never a stump - speech doe the poor whaleman make ; but , with downcast eye , stand ruefulli contempl hi own amput . throughout the pacif , and also in nantucket , and new bedford , and sag harbor , you will come across live sketch of whale and whale - scene , graven by the fishermen themselv on sperm whale - teeth , or ladi ' busk wrought out of the right whale - bone , and other like skrimshand articl , as the whalemen call the numer littl ingeni contriv they elabor carv out of the rough materi , in their hour of ocean leisur . some of them have littl box of dentist - look implement , special intend for the skrimshand busi . but , in gener , they toil with their jack - knive alon ; and , with that almost omnipot tool of the sailor , they will turn you out anyth you pleas , in the way of a marin ' s fanci . long exil from christendom and civil inevit restor a man to that condit in which god place him , i . e . what is call savageri . your true whale - hunter is as much a savag as an iroquoi . I myself am a savag , own no allegi but to the king of the cannib ; and readi at ani moment to rebel against him . now , one of the peculiar characterist of the savag in hi domest hour , is hi wonder patienc of industri . An ancient hawaiian war - club or spear - paddl , in it full multipl and elabor of carv , is as great a trophi of human persever as a latin lexicon . for , with but a bit of broken sea - shell or a shark ' s tooth , that miracul intricaci of wooden net - work ha been achiev ; and it ha cost steadi year of steadi applic . As with the hawaiian savag , so with the white sailor - savag . with the same marvel patienc , and with the same singl shark ' s tooth , of hi one poor jack - knife , he will carv you a bit of bone sculptur , not quit as workmanlik , but as close pack in it mazi of design , as the greek savag , achil ' s shield ; and full of barbar spirit and suggest , as the print of that fine old dutch savag , albert durer . wooden whale , or whale cut in profil out of the small dark slab of the nobl south sea war - wood , are frequent met with in the forecastl of american whaler . some of them are done with much accuraci . At some old gabl - roof countri hous you will see brass whale hung by the tail for knocker to the road - side door . when the porter is sleepi , the anvil - head whale would be best . but these knock whale are seldom remark as faith essay . On the spire of some old - fashion church you will see sheet - iron whale place there for weather - cock ; but they are so elev , and besid that are to all intent and purpos so label with `` hand off ! '' you can not examin them close enough to decid upon their merit . In boni , ribbi region of the earth , where at the base of high broken cliff mass of rock lie strewn in fantast group upon the plain , you will often discov imag as of the petrifi form of the leviathan partli merg in grass , which of a windi day break against them in a surf of green surg . then , again , in mountain countri where the travel is continu girdl by amphitheatr height ; here and there from some lucki point of view you will catch pass glimps of the profil of whale defin along the undul ridg . but you must be a thorough whaleman , to see these sight ; and not onli that , but if you wish to return to such a sight again , you must be sure and take the exact intersect latitud and longitud of your first stand - point , els so chanc - like are such observ of the hill , that your precis , previou stand - point would requir a labori re - discoveri ; like the soloma island , which still remain incognita , though onc high - ruf mendanna trod them and old figuera chronicl them . nor when expandingli lift by your subject , can you fail to trace out great whale in the starri heaven , and boat in pursuit of them ; as when long fill with thought of war the eastern nation saw armi lock in battl among the cloud . thu at the north have I chase leviathan round and round the pole with the revolut of the bright point that first defin him to me . and beneath the effulg antarct sky I have board the argo - navi , and join the chase against the starri cetu far beyond the utmost stretch of hydru and the fli fish . with a frigat ' s anchor for my bridl - bitt and fasc of harpoon for spur , would I could mount that whale and leap the topmost sky , to see whether the fabl heaven with all their countless tent realli lie encamp beyond my mortal sight ! chapter 58 brit . steer north - eastward from the crozett , we fell in with vast meadow of brit , the minut , yellow substanc , upon which the right whale larg feed . for leagu and leagu it undul round us , so that we seem to be sail through boundless field of ripe and golden wheat . On the second day , number of right whale were seen , who , secur from the attack of a sperm whaler like the pequod , with open jaw sluggishli swam through the brit , which , adher to the fring fibr of that wondrou venetian blind in their mouth , wa in that manner separ from the water that escap at the lip . As morn mower , who side by side slowli and seethingli advanc their scyth through the long wet grass of marshi mead ; even so these monster swam , make a strang , grassi , cut sound ; and leav behind them endless swath of blue upon the yellow sea . * * that part of the sea known among whalemen as the `` brazil bank `` doe not bear that name as the bank of newfoundland do , becaus of there be shallow and sound there , but becaus of thi remark meadow - like appear , caus by the vast drift of brit continu float in those latitud , where the right whale is often chase . but it wa onli the sound they made as they part the brit which at all remind one of mower . seen from the mast - head , especi when they paus and were stationari for a while , their vast black form look more like lifeless mass of rock than anyth els . and as in the great hunt countri of india , the stranger at a distanc will sometim pass on the plain recumb eleph without know them to be such , take them for bare , blacken elev of the soil ; even so , often , with him , who for the first time behold thi speci of the leviathan of the sea . and even when recognis at last , their immens magnitud render it veri hard realli to believ that such bulki mass of overgrowth can possibl be instinct , in all part , with the same sort of life that live in a dog or a hors . inde , in other respect , you can hardli regard ani creatur of the deep with the same feel that you do those of the shore . for though some old naturalist have maintain that all creatur of the land are of their kind in the sea ; and though take a broad gener view of the thing , thi may veri well be ; yet come to specialti , where , for exampl , doe the ocean furnish ani fish that in disposit answer to the sagaci kind of the dog ? the accurs shark alon can in ani gener respect be said to bear compar analog to him . but though , to landsmen in gener , the nativ inhabit of the sea have ever been regard with emot unspeak unsoci and repel ; though we know the sea to be an everlast terra incognita , so that columbu sail over numberless unknown world to discov hi one superfici western one ; though , by vast odd , the most terrif of all mortal disast have immemori and indiscrimin befallen ten and hundr of thousand of those who have gone upon the water ; though but a moment ' s consider will teach , that howev babi man may brag of hi scienc and skill , and howev much , in a flatter futur , that scienc and skill may augment ; yet for ever and for ever , to the crack of doom , the sea will insult and murder him , and pulver the stateliest , stiffest frigat he can make ; nevertheless , by the continu repetit of these veri impress , man ha lost that sens of the full aw of the sea which aborigin belong to it . the first boat we read of , float on an ocean , that with portugues vengeanc had whelm a whole world without leav so much as a widow . that same ocean roll now ; that same ocean destroy the wreck ship of last year . yea , foolish mortal , noah ' s flood is not yet subsid ; two third of the fair world it yet cover . wherein differ the sea and the land , that a miracl upon one is not a miracl upon the other ? preternatur terror rest upon the hebrew , when under the feet of korah and hi compani the live ground open and swallow them up for ever ; yet not a modern sun ever set , but in precis the same manner the live sea swallow up ship and crew . but not onli is the sea such a foe to man who is an alien to it , but it is also a fiend to it own off - spring ; wors than the persian host who murder hi own guest ; spare not the creatur which itself hath spawn . like a savag tigress that toss in the jungl overlay her own cub , so the sea dash even the mightiest whale against the rock , and leav them there side by side with the split wreck of ship . No merci , no power but it own control it . pant and snort like a mad battl steed that ha lost it rider , the masterless ocean overrun the globe . consid the subtl of the sea ; how it most dread creatur glide under water , unappar for the most part , and treacher hidden beneath the loveliest tint of azur . consid also the devilish brillianc and beauti of mani of it most remorseless tribe , as the dainti embellish shape of mani speci of shark . consid , onc more , the univers cannib of the sea ; all whose creatur prey upon each other , carri on etern war sinc the world began . consid all thi ; and then turn to thi green , gentl , and most docil earth ; consid them both , the sea and the land ; and do you not find a strang analog to someth in yourself ? for as thi appal ocean surround the verdant land , so in the soul of man there lie one insular tahiti , full of peac and joy , but encompass by all the horror of the half known life . god keep thee ! push not off from that isl , thou canst never return ! chapter 59 squid . slowli wade through the meadow of brit , the pequod still held on her way north - eastward toward the island of java ; a gentl air impel her keel , so that in the surround seren her three tall taper mast mildli wave to that languid breez , as three mild palm on a plain . and still , at wide interv in the silveri night , the lone , allur jet would be seen . but one transpar blue morn , when a still almost preternatur spread over the sea , howev unattend with ani stagnant calm ; when the long burnish sun - glade on the water seem a golden finger laid across them , enjoin some secreci ; when the slipper wave whisper togeth as they softli ran on ; in thi profound hush of the visibl sphere a strang spectr wa seen by daggoo from the main - mast - head . In the distanc , a great white mass lazili rose , and rise higher and higher , and disentangl itself from the azur , at last gleam befor our prow like a snow - slide , new slid from the hill . thu glisten for a moment , as slowli it subsid , and sank . then onc more aros , and silent gleam . It seem not a whale ; and yet is thi mobi dick ? thought daggoo . again the phantom went down , but on re - appear onc more , with a stiletto - like cri that startl everi man from hi nod , the negro yell out -- '' there ! there again ! there she breach ! right ahead ! the white whale , the white whale ! '' upon thi , the seamen rush to the yard - arm , as in swarm - time the bee rush to the bough . bare - head in the sultri sun , ahab stood on the bowsprit , and with one hand push far behind in readi to wave hi order to the helmsman , cast hi eager glanc in the direct indic aloft by the outstretch motionless arm of daggoo . whether the flit attend of the one still and solitari jet had gradual work upon ahab , so that he wa now prepar to connect the idea of mild and repos with the first sight of the particular whale he pursu ; howev thi wa , or whether hi eager betray him ; whichev way it might have been , no sooner did he distinctli perceiv the white mass , than with a quick intens he instantli gave order for lower . the four boat were soon on the water ; ahab ' s in advanc , and all swiftli pull toward their prey . soon it went down , and while , with oar suspend , we were await it reappear , lo ! in the same spot where it sank , onc more it slowli rose . almost forget for the moment all thought of mobi dick , we now gaze at the most wondrou phenomenon which the secret sea have hitherto reveal to mankind . A vast pulpi mass , furlong in length and breadth , of a glanc cream - colour , lay float on the water , innumer long arm radiat from it centr , and curl and twist like a nest of anaconda , as if blindli to clutch at ani hapless object within reach . No percept face or front did it have ; no conceiv token of either sensat or instinct ; but undul there on the billow , an unearthli , formless , chanc - like apparit of life . As with a low suck sound it slowli disappear again , starbuck still gaze at the agit water where it had sunk , with a wild voic exclaim -- '' almost rather had I seen mobi dick and fought him , than to have seen thee , thou white ghost ! '' `` what wa it , sir ? '' said flask . `` the great live squid , which , they say , few whale - ship ever beheld , and return to their port to tell of it . '' but ahab said noth ; turn hi boat , he sail back to the vessel ; the rest as silent follow . whatev superstit the sperm whalemen in gener have connect with the sight of thi object , certain it is , that a glimps of it be so veri unusu , that circumst ha gone far to invest it with portent . So rare is it beheld , that though one and all of them declar it to be the largest anim thing in the ocean , yet veri few of them have ani but the most vagu idea concern it true natur and form ; notwithstand , they believ it to furnish to the sperm whale hi onli food . for though other speci of whale find their food abov water , and may be seen by man in the act of feed , the spermaceti whale obtain hi whole food in unknown zone below the surfac ; and onli by infer is it that ani one can tell of what , precis , that food consist . At time , when close pursu , he will disgorg what are suppos to be the detach arm of the squid ; some of them thu exhibit exceed twenti and thirti feet in length . they fanci that the monster to which these arm belong ordinarili cling by them to the bed of the ocean ; and that the sperm whale , unlik other speci , is suppli with teeth in order to attack and tear it . there seem some ground to imagin that the great kraken of bishop pontoppodan may ultim resolv itself into squid . the manner in which the bishop describ it , as altern rise and sink , with some other particular he narrat , in all thi the two correspond . but much abat is necessari with respect to the incred bulk he assign it . By some naturalist who have vagu heard rumor of the mysteri creatur , here spoken of , it is includ among the class of cuttl - fish , to which , inde , in certain extern respect it would seem to belong , but onli as the anak of the tribe . chapter 60 the line . with refer to the whale scene shortli to be describ , as well as for the better understand of all similar scene elsewher present , I have here to speak of the magic , sometim horribl whale - line . the line origin use in the fisheri wa of the best hemp , slightli vapour with tar , not impregn with it , as in the case of ordinari rope ; for while tar , as ordinarili use , make the hemp more pliabl to the rope - maker , and also render the rope itself more conveni to the sailor for common ship use ; yet , not onli would the ordinari quantiti too much stiffen the whale - line for the close coil to which it must be subject ; but as most seamen are begin to learn , tar in gener by no mean add to the rope ' s durabl or strength , howev much it may give it compact and gloss . Of late year the manilla rope ha in the american fisheri almost entir supersed hemp as a materi for whale - line ; for , though not so durabl as hemp , it is stronger , and far more soft and elast ; and I will add ( sinc there is an aesthet in all thing ) , is much more handsom and becom to the boat , than hemp . hemp is a duski , dark fellow , a sort of indian ; but manilla is as a golden - hair circassian to behold . the whale - line is onli two - third of an inch in thick . At first sight , you would not think it so strong as it realli is . By experi it one and fifti yarn will each suspend a weight of one hundr and twenti pound ; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearli equal to three ton . In length , the common sperm whale - line measur someth over two hundr fathom . toward the stern of the boat it is spiral coil away in the tub , not like the worm - pipe of a still though , but so as to form one round , chees - shape mass of dens bed `` sheav , '' or layer of concentr spiral , without ani hollow but the `` heart , '' or minut vertic tube form at the axi of the chees . As the least tangl or kink in the coil would , in run out , infal take somebodi ' s arm , leg , or entir bodi off , the utmost precaut is use in stow the line in it tub . some harpoon will consum almost an entir morn in thi busi , carri the line high aloft and then reev it downward through a block toward the tub , so as in the act of coil to free it from all possibl wrinkl and twist . In the english boat two tub are use instead of one ; the same line be continu coil in both tub . there is some advantag in thi ; becaus these twin - tub be so small they fit more readili into the boat , and do not strain it so much ; wherea , the american tub , nearli three feet in diamet and of proportion depth , make a rather bulki freight for a craft whose plank are but one half - inch in thick ; for the bottom of the whale - boat is like critic ice , which will bear up a consider distribut weight , but not veri much of a concentr one . when the paint canva cover is clap on the american line - tub , the boat look as if it were pull off with a prodigi great wed - cake to present to the whale . both end of the line are expos ; the lower end termin in an eye - splice or loop come up from the bottom against the side of the tub , and hang over it edg complet disengag from everyth . thi arrang of the lower end is necessari on two account . first : In order to facilit the fasten to it of an addit line from a neighbor boat , in case the stricken whale should sound so deep as to threaten to carri off the entir line origin attach to the harpoon . In these instanc , the whale of cours is shift like a mug of ale , as it were , from the one boat to the other ; though the first boat alway hover at hand to assist it consort . second : thi arrang is indispens for common safeti ' s sake ; for were the lower end of the line in ani way attach to the boat , and were the whale then to run the line out to the end almost in a singl , smoke minut as he sometim doe , he would not stop there , for the doom boat would infal be drag down after him into the profund of the sea ; and in that case no town - crier would ever find her again . befor lower the boat for the chase , the upper end of the line is taken aft from the tub , and pass round the loggerhead there , is again carri forward the entir length of the boat , rest crosswis upon the loom or handl of everi man ' s oar , so that it jog against hi wrist in row ; and also pass between the men , as they altern sit at the opposit gunwal , to the lead chock or groov in the extrem point prow of the boat , where a wooden pin or skewer the size of a common quill , prevent it from slip out . from the chock it hang in a slight festoon over the bow , and is then pass insid the boat again ; and some ten or twenti fathom ( call box - line ) be coil upon the box in the bow , it continu it way to the gunwal still a littl further aft , and is then attach to the short - warp -- the rope which is immedi connect with the harpoon ; but previou to that connexion , the short - warp goe through sundri mystif too tediou to detail . thu the whale - line fold the whole boat in it complic coil , twist and writh around it in almost everi direct . all the oarsmen are involv in it peril contort ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as indian juggler , with the deadliest snake sportiv festoon their limb . nor can ani son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricaci , and while strain hi utmost at the oar , bethink him that at ani unknown instant the harpoon may be dart , and all these horribl contort be put in play like ring lightn ; he can not be thu circumstanc without a shudder that make the veri marrow in hi bone to quiver in him like a shaken jelli . yet habit -- strang thing ! what can not habit accomplish ? -- gayer salli , more merri mirth , better joke , and brighter reparte , you never heard over your mahogani , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thu hung in hangman ' s noos ; and , like the six burgher of calai befor king edward , the six men compos the crew pull into the jaw of death , with a halter around everi neck , as you may say . perhap a veri littl thought will now enabl you to account for those repeat whale disast -- some few of which are casual chronicl -- of thi man or that man be taken out of the boat by the line , and lost . for , when the line is dart out , to be seat then in the boat , is like be seat in the midst of the manifold whizz of a steam - engin in full play , when everi fli beam , and shaft , and wheel , is graze you . It is wors ; for you can not sit motionless in the heart of these peril , becaus the boat is rock like a cradl , and you are pitch one way and the other , without the slightest warn ; and onli by a certain self - adjust buoyanc and simultan of volit and action , can you escap be made a mazeppa of , and run away with where the all - see sun himself could never pierc you out . again : as the profound calm which onli appar preced and prophesi of the storm , is perhap more aw than the storm itself ; for , inde , the calm is but the wrapper and envelop of the storm ; and contain it in itself , as the seemingli harmless rifl hold the fatal powder , and the ball , and the explos ; so the grace repos of the line , as it silent serpentin about the oarsmen befor be brought into actual play -- thi is a thing which carri more of true terror than ani other aspect of thi danger affair . but whi say more ? all men live envelop in whale - line . all are born with halter round their neck ; but it is onli when caught in the swift , sudden turn of death , that mortal realiz the silent , subtl , ever - present peril of life . and if you be a philosoph , though seat in the whale - boat , you would not at heart feel one whit more of terror , than though seat befor your even fire with a poker , and not a harpoon , by your side . chapter 61 stubb kill a whale . If to starbuck the apparit of the squid wa a thing of portent , to queequeg it wa quit a differ object . `` when you see him ' quid , '' said the savag , hone hi harpoon in the bow of hi hoist boat , `` then you quick see him ' parm whale . '' the next day wa exceedingli still and sultri , and with noth special to engag them , the pequod ' s crew could hardli resist the spell of sleep induc by such a vacant sea . for thi part of the indian ocean through which we then were voyag is not what whalemen call a live ground ; that is , it afford fewer glimps of porpois , dolphin , fli - fish , and other vivaci denizen of more stir water , than those off the rio de la plata , or the in - shore ground off peru . It wa my turn to stand at the foremast - head ; and with my shoulder lean against the slacken royal shroud , to and fro I idli sway in what seem an enchant air . No resolut could withstand it ; in that dreami mood lose all conscious , at last my soul went out of my bodi ; though my bodi still continu to sway as a pendulum will , long after the power which first move it is withdrawn . ere forget altogeth came over me , I had notic that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - head were alreadi drowsi . So that at last all three of us lifelessli swung from the spar , and for everi swing that we made there wa a nod from below from the slumber helmsman . the wave , too , nod their indol crest ; and across the wide tranc of the sea , east nod to west , and the sun over all . suddenli bubbl seem burst beneath my close eye ; like vice my hand grasp the shroud ; some invis , graciou agenc preserv me ; with a shock I came back to life . and lo ! close under our lee , not forti fathom off , a gigant sperm whale lay roll in the water like the capsiz hull of a frigat , hi broad , glossi back , of an ethiopian hue , glisten in the sun ' s ray like a mirror . but lazili undul in the trough of the sea , and ever and anon tranquilli spout hi vapouri jet , the whale look like a portli burgher smoke hi pipe of a warm afternoon . but that pipe , poor whale , wa thi last . As if struck by some enchant ' s wand , the sleepi ship and everi sleeper in it all at onc start into wake ; and more than a score of voic from all part of the vessel , simultan with the three note from aloft , shout forth the accustom cri , as the great fish slowli and regularli spout the sparkl brine into the air . `` clear away the boat ! luff ! '' cri ahab . and obey hi own order , he dash the helm down befor the helmsman could handl the spoke . the sudden exclam of the crew must have alarm the whale ; and ere the boat were down , majest turn , he swam away to the leeward , but with such a steadi tranquil , and make so few rippl as he swam , that think after all he might not as yet be alarm , ahab gave order that not an oar should be use , and no man must speak but in whisper . So seat like ontario indian on the gunwal of the boat , we swiftli but silent paddl along ; the calm not admit of the noiseless sail be set . present , as we thu glide in chase , the monster perpendicularli flit hi tail forti feet into the air , and then sank out of sight like a tower swallow up . `` there go fluke ! '' wa the cri , an announc immedi follow by stubb ' s produc hi match and ignit hi pipe , for now a respit wa grant . after the full interv of hi sound had elaps , the whale rose again , and be now in advanc of the smoker ' s boat , and much nearer to it than to ani of the other , stubb count upon the honour of the captur . It wa obviou , now , that the whale had at length becom awar of hi pursuer . all silenc of cautious wa therefor no longer of use . paddl were drop , and oar came loudli into play . and still puf at hi pipe , stubb cheer on hi crew to the assault . ye , a mighti chang had come over the fish . all aliv to hi jeopardi , he wa go `` head out `` ; that part obliqu project from the mad yeast which he brew . * * It will be seen in some other place of what a veri light substanc the entir interior of the sperm whale ' s enorm head consist . though appar the most massiv , it is by far the most buoyant part about him . So that with eas he elev it in the air , and invari doe so when go at hi utmost speed . besid , such is the breadth of the upper part of the front of hi head , and such the taper cut - water format of the lower part , that by obliqu elev hi head , he therebi may be said to transform himself from a bluff - bow sluggish galliot into a sharppoint new york pilot - boat . `` start her , start her , my men ! don ' t hurri yourselv ; take plenti of time -- but start her ; start her like thunder - clap , that ' s all , '' cri stubb , splutter out the smoke as he spoke . `` start her , now ; give ' em the long and strong stroke , tashtego . start her , tash , my boy -- start her , all ; but keep cool , keep cool -- cucumb is the word -- easi , easi -- onli start her like grim death and grin devil , and rais the buri dead perpendicular out of their grave , boy -- that ' s all . start her ! '' `` woo - hoo ! Wa - hee ! '' scream the gay - header in repli , rais some old war - whoop to the sky ; as everi oarsman in the strain boat involuntarili bounc forward with the one tremend lead stroke which the eager indian gave . but hi wild scream were answer by other quit as wild . `` kee - hee ! kee - hee ! '' yell daggoo , strain forward and backward on hi seat , like a pace tiger in hi cage . `` Ka - la ! koo - loo ! '' howl queequeg , as if smack hi lip over a mouth of grenadi ' s steak . and thu with oar and yell the keel cut the sea . meanwhil , stubb retain hi place in the van , still encourag hi men to the onset , all the while puf the smoke from hi mouth . like desperado they tug and they strain , till the welcom cri wa heard -- '' stand up , tashtego ! -- give it to him ! '' the harpoon wa hurl . `` stern all ! '' the oarsmen back water ; the same moment someth went hot and hiss along everi one of their wrist . It wa the magic line . An instant befor , stubb had swiftli caught two addit turn with it round the loggerhead , whenc , by reason of it increas rapid circl , a hempen blue smoke now jet up and mingl with the steadi fume from hi pipe . As the line pass round and round the loggerhead ; so also , just befor reach that point , it blisteringli pass through and through both of stubb ' s hand , from which the hand - cloth , or squar of quilt canva sometim worn at these time , had accident drop . It wa like hold an enemi ' s sharp two - edg sword by the blade , and that enemi all the time strive to wrest it out of your clutch . `` wet the line ! wet the line ! '' cri stubb to the tub oarsman ( him seat by the tub ) who , snatch off hi hat , dash sea - water into it . * more turn were taken , so that the line began hold it place . the boat now flew through the boil water like a shark all fin . stubb and tashtego here chang place -- stem for stern -- a stagger busi truli in that rock commot . * partli to show the indispens of thi act , it may here be state , that , in the old dutch fisheri , a mop wa use to dash the run line with water ; in mani other ship , a wooden piggin , or bailer , is set apart for that purpos . your hat , howev , is the most conveni . from the vibrat line extend the entir length of the upper part of the boat , and from it now be more tight than a harpstr , you would have thought the craft had two keel -- one cleav the water , the other the air -- as the boat churn on through both oppos element at onc . A continu cascad play at the bow ; a ceaseless whirl eddi in her wake ; and , at the slightest motion from within , even but of a littl finger , the vibrat , crack craft cant over her spasmod gunwal into the sea . thu they rush ; each man with might and main cling to hi seat , to prevent be toss to the foam ; and the tall form of tashtego at the steer oar crouch almost doubl , in order to bring down hi centr of graviti . whole atlant and pacif seem pass as they shot on their way , till at length the whale somewhat slacken hi flight . `` haul in -- haul in ! '' cri stubb to the bowsman ! and , face round toward the whale , all hand began pull the boat up to him , while yet the boat wa be tow on . soon rang up by hi flank , stubb , firmli plant hi knee in the clumsi cleat , dart dart after dart into the fli fish ; at the word of command , the boat altern stern out of the way of the whale ' s horribl wallow , and then rang up for anoth fling . the red tide now pour from all side of the monster like brook down a hill . hi torment bodi roll not in brine but in blood , which bubbl and seeth for furlong behind in their wake . the slant sun play upon thi crimson pond in the sea , sent back it reflect into everi face , so that they all glow to each other like red men . and all the while , jet after jet of white smoke wa agonizingli shot from the spiracl of the whale , and vehement puff after puff from the mouth of the excit headsman ; as at everi dart , haul in upon hi crook lanc ( by the line attach to it ) , stubb straighten it again and again , by a few rapid blow against the gunwal , then again and again sent it into the whale . `` pull up -- pull up ! '' he now cri to the bowsman , as the wane whale relax in hi wrath . `` pull up ! -- close to ! '' and the boat rang along the fish ' s flank . when reach far over the bow , stubb slowli churn hi long sharp lanc into the fish , and kept it there , care churn and churn , as if cautious seek to feel after some gold watch that the whale might have swallow , and which he wa fear of break ere he could hook it out . but that gold watch he sought wa the innermost life of the fish . and now it is struck ; for , start from hi tranc into that unspeak thing call hi `` flurri , '' the monster horribl wallow in hi blood , overwrap himself in impenetr , mad , boil spray , so that the imperil craft , instantli drop astern , had much ado blindli to struggl out from that phrensi twilight into the clear air of the day . and now abat in hi flurri , the whale onc more roll out into view ; surg from side to side ; spasmod dilat and contract hi spout - hole , with sharp , crack , agon respir . At last , gush after gush of clot red gore , as if it had been the purpl lee of red wine , shot into the fright air ; and fall back again , ran drip down hi motionless flank into the sea . hi heart had burst ! `` He ' s dead , Mr . stubb , '' said daggoo . `` ye ; both pipe smoke out ! '' and withdraw hi own from hi mouth , stubb scatter the dead ash over the water ; and , for a moment , stood thought eye the vast corps he had made . chapter 62 the dart . A word concern an incid in the last chapter . accord to the invari usag of the fisheri , the whale - boat push off from the ship , with the headsman or whale - killer as temporari steersman , and the harpoon or whale - fasten pull the foremost oar , the one known as the harpoon - oar . now it need a strong , nervou arm to strike the first iron into the fish ; for often , in what is call a long dart , the heavi implement ha to be flung to the distanc of twenti or thirti feet . but howev prolong and exhaust the chase , the harpoon is expect to pull hi oar meanwhil to the uttermost ; inde , he is expect to set an exampl of superhuman activ to the rest , not onli by incred row , but by repeat loud and intrepid exclam ; and what it is to keep shout at the top of one ' s compass , while all the other muscl are strain and half start -- what that is none know but those who have tri it . for one , I can not bawl veri heartili and work veri recklessli at one and the same time . In thi strain , bawl state , then , with hi back to the fish , all at onc the exhaust harpoon hear the excit cri -- '' stand up , and give it to him ! '' He now ha to drop and secur hi oar , turn round on hi centr half way , seiz hi harpoon from the crotch , and with what littl strength may remain , he essay to pitch it somehow into the whale . No wonder , take the whole fleet of whalemen in a bodi , that out of fifti fair chanc for a dart , not five are success ; no wonder that so mani hapless harpoon are madli curs and disrat ; no wonder that some of them actual burst their blood - vessel in the boat ; no wonder that some sperm whalemen are absent four year with four barrel ; no wonder that to mani ship owner , whale is but a lose concern ; for it is the harpoon that make the voyag , and if you take the breath out of hi bodi how can you expect to find it there when most want ! again , if the dart be success , then at the second critic instant , that is , when the whale start to run , the boathead and harpoon likewis start to run fore and aft , to the immin jeopardi of themselv and everi one els . It is then they chang place ; and the headsman , the chief offic of the littl craft , take hi proper station in the bow of the boat . now , I care not who maintain the contrari , but all thi is both foolish and unnecessari . the headsman should stay in the bow from first to last ; he should both dart the harpoon and the lanc , and no row whatev should be expect of him , except under circumst obviou to ani fisherman . I know that thi would sometim involv a slight loss of speed in the chase ; but long experi in variou whalemen of more than one nation ha convinc me that in the vast major of failur in the fisheri , it ha not by ani mean been so much the speed of the whale as the befor describ exhaust of the harpoon that ha caus them . To insur the greatest effici in the dart , the harpoon of thi world must start to their feet from out of idl , and not from out of toil . chapter 63 the crotch . out of the trunk , the branch grow ; out of them , the twig . So , in product subject , grow the chapter . the crotch allud to on a previou page deserv independ mention . It is a notch stick of a peculiar form , some two feet in length , which is perpendicularli insert into the starboard gunwal near the bow , for the purpos of furnish a rest for the wooden extrem of the harpoon , whose other nake , barb end slopingli project from the prow . therebi the weapon is instantli at hand to it hurler , who snatch it up as readili from it rest as a backwoodsman swing hi rifl from the wall . It is customari to have two harpoon repos in the crotch , respect call the first and second iron . but these two harpoon , each by it own cord , are both connect with the line ; the object be thi : to dart them both , if possibl , one instantli after the other into the same whale ; so that if , in the come drag , one should draw out , the other may still retain a hold . It is a doubl of the chanc . but it veri often happen that owe to the instantan , violent , convuls run of the whale upon receiv the first iron , it becom imposs for the harpoon , howev lightn - like in hi movement , to pitch the second iron into him . nevertheless , as the second iron is alreadi connect with the line , and the line is run , henc that weapon must , at all event , be anticipatingli toss out of the boat , somehow and somewher ; els the most terribl jeopardi would involv all hand . tumbl into the water , it accordingli is in such case ; the spare coil of box line ( mention in a preced chapter ) make thi feat , in most instanc , prudent practic . but thi critic act is not alway unattend with the saddest and most fatal casualti . furthermor : you must know that when the second iron is thrown overboard , it thenceforth becom a dangl , sharp - edg terror , skittishli curvet about both boat and whale , entangl the line , or cut them , and make a prodigi sensat in all direct . nor , in gener , is it possibl to secur it again until the whale is fairli captur and a corps . consid , now , how it must be in the case of four boat all engag one unusu strong , activ , and know whale ; when owe to these qualiti in him , as well as to the thousand concur accid of such an audaci enterpris , eight or ten loos second iron may be simultan dangl about him . for , of cours , each boat is suppli with sever harpoon to bend on to the line should the first one be ineffectu dart without recoveri . all these particular are faith narrat here , as they will not fail to elucid sever most import , howev intric passag , in scene hereaft to be paint . chapter 64 stubb ' s supper . stubb ' s whale had been kill some distanc from the ship . It wa a calm ; so , form a tandem of three boat , we commenc the slow busi of tow the trophi to the pequod . and now , as we eighteen men with our thirti - six arm , and one hundr and eighti thumb and finger , slowli toil hour after hour upon that inert , sluggish corps in the sea ; and it seem hardli to budg at all , except at long interv ; good evid wa herebi furnish of the enorm of the mass we move . for , upon the great canal of hang - Ho , or whatev they call it , in china , four or five labor on the foot - path will draw a bulki freight junk at the rate of a mile an hour ; but thi grand argosi we tow heavili forg along , as if laden with pig - lead in bulk . dark came on ; but three light up and down in the pequod ' s main - rig dimli guid our way ; till draw nearer we saw ahab drop one of sever more lantern over the bulwark . vacantli eye the heav whale for a moment , he issu the usual order for secur it for the night , and then hand hi lantern to a seaman , went hi way into the cabin , and did not come forward again until morn . though , in overse the pursuit of thi whale , captain ahab had evinc hi customari activ , to call it so ; yet now that the creatur wa dead , some vagu dissatisfact , or impati , or despair , seem work in him ; as if the sight of that dead bodi remind him that mobi dick wa yet to be slain ; and though a thousand other whale were brought to hi ship , all that would not one jot advanc hi grand , monomaniac object . veri soon you would have thought from the sound on the pequod ' s deck , that all hand were prepar to cast anchor in the deep ; for heavi chain are be drag along the deck , and thrust rattl out of the port - hole . but by those clank link , the vast corps itself , not the ship , is to be moor . tie by the head to the stern , and by the tail to the bow , the whale now lie with it black hull close to the vessel ' s and seen through the dark of the night , which obscur the spar and rig aloft , the two -- ship and whale , seem yoke togeth like coloss bullock , whereof one reclin while the other remain stand . * * A littl item may as well be relat here . the strongest and most reliabl hold which the ship ha upon the whale when moor alongsid , is by the fluke or tail ; and as from it greater densiti that part is rel heavier than ani other ( except the side - fin ) , it flexibl even in death , caus it to sink low beneath the surfac ; so that with the hand you can not get at it from the boat , in order to put the chain round it . but thi difficulti is ingeni overcom : a small , strong line is prepar with a wooden float at it outer end , and a weight in it middl , while the other end is secur to the ship . By adroit manag the wooden float is made to rise on the other side of the mass , so that now have girdl the whale , the chain is readili made to follow suit ; and be slip along the bodi , is at last lock fast round the smallest part of the tail , at the point of junction with it broad fluke or lobe . If moodi ahab wa now all quiescenc , at least so far as could be known on deck , stubb , hi second mate , flush with conquest , betray an unusu but still good - natur excit . such an unwont bustl wa he in that the staid starbuck , hi offici superior , quietli resign to him for the time the sole manag of affair . one small , help caus of all thi liveli in stubb , wa soon made strang manifest . stubb wa a high liver ; he wa somewhat intemper fond of the whale as a flavorish thing to hi palat . `` A steak , a steak , ere I sleep ! you , daggoo ! overboard you go , and cut me one from hi small ! '' here be it known , that though these wild fishermen do not , as a gener thing , and accord to the great militari maxim , make the enemi defray the current expens of the war ( at least befor realiz the proce of the voyag ) , yet now and then you find some of these nantucket who have a genuin relish for that particular part of the sperm whale design by stubb ; compris the taper extrem of the bodi . about midnight that steak wa cut and cook ; and light by two lantern of sperm oil , stubb stoutli stood up to hi spermaceti supper at the capstan - head , as if that capstan were a sideboard . nor wa stubb the onli banquet on whale ' s flesh that night . mingl their mumbl with hi own mastic , thousand on thousand of shark , swarm round the dead leviathan , smackingli feast on it fat . the few sleeper below in their bunk were often startl by the sharp slap of their tail against the hull , within a few inch of the sleeper ' heart . peer over the side you could just see them ( as befor you heard them ) wallow in the sullen , black water , and turn over on their back as they scoop out huge globular piec of the whale of the big of a human head . thi particular feat of the shark seem all but miracul . how at such an appar unassail surfac , they contriv to goug out such symmetr mouth , remain a part of the univers problem of all thing . the mark they thu leav on the whale , may best be liken to the hollow made by a carpent in countersink for a screw . though amid all the smoke horror and diabol of a sea - fight , shark will be seen longingli gaze up to the ship ' s deck , like hungri dog round a tabl where red meat is be carv , readi to bolt down everi kill man that is toss to them ; and though , while the valiant butcher over the deck - tabl are thu cannib carv each other ' s live meat with carv - knive all gild and tassel , the shark , also , with their jewel - hilt mouth , are quarrelsom carv away under the tabl at the dead meat ; and though , were you to turn the whole affair upsid down , it would still be pretti much the same thing , that is to say , a shock sharkish busi enough for all parti ; and though shark also are the invari outrid of all slave ship cross the atlant , systemat trot alongsid , to be handi in case a parcel is to be carri anywher , or a dead slave to be decent buri ; and though one or two other like instanc might be set down , touch the set term , place , and occas , when shark do most social congreg , and most hilari feast ; yet is there no conceiv time or occas when you will find them in such countless number , and in gayer or more jovial spirit , than around a dead sperm whale , moor by night to a whaleship at sea . If you have never seen that sight , then suspend your decis about the proprieti of devil - worship , and the expedi of concili the devil . but , as yet , stubb heed not the mumbl of the banquet that wa go on so nigh him , no more than the shark heed the smack of hi own epicurean lip . `` cook , cook ! -- where ' s that old fleec ? '' he cri at length , widen hi leg still further , as if to form a more secur base for hi supper ; and , at the same time dart hi fork into the dish , as if stab with hi lanc ; `` cook , you cook ! -- sail thi way , cook ! '' the old black , not in ani veri high glee at have been previous rous from hi warm hammock at a most unseason hour , came shambl along from hi galley , for , like mani old black , there wa someth the matter with hi knee - pan , which he did not keep well scour like hi other pan ; thi old fleec , as they call him , came shuffl and limp along , assist hi step with hi tong , which , after a clumsi fashion , were made of straighten iron hoop ; thi old eboni flounder along , and in obedi to the word of command , came to a dead stop on the opposit side of stubb ' s sideboard ; when , with both hand fold befor him , and rest on hi two - leg cane , he bow hi arch back still further over , at the same time sideway inclin hi head , so as to bring hi best ear into play . `` cook , '' said stubb , rapidli lift a rather reddish morsel to hi mouth , `` don ' t you think thi steak is rather overdon ? you ' ve been beat thi steak too much , cook ; it ' s too tender . don ' t I alway say that to be good , a whale - steak must be tough ? there are those shark now over the side , don ' t you see they prefer it tough and rare ? what a shindi they are kick up ! cook , go and talk to ' em ; tell ' em they are welcom to help themselv civilli , and in moder , but they must keep quiet . blast me , if I can hear my own voic . away , cook , and deliv my messag . here , take thi lantern , '' snatch one from hi sideboard ; `` now then , go and preach to ' em ! '' sullenli take the offer lantern , old fleec limp across the deck to the bulwark ; and then , with one hand drop hi light low over the sea , so as to get a good view of hi congreg , with the other hand he solemnli flourish hi tong , and lean far over the side in a mumbl voic began address the shark , while stubb , softli crawl behind , overheard all that wa said . `` fellow - critter : I ' se order here to say dat you must stop dat dam nois dare . you hear ? stop dat dam smackin ' ob de lip ! massa stubb say dat you can fill your dam belli up to de hatch , but by gor ! you must stop dat dam racket ! '' `` cook , '' here interpos stubb , accompani the word with a sudden slap on the shoulder , -- '' cook ! whi , damn your eye , you mustn ' t swear that way when you ' re preach . that ' s no way to convert sinner , cook ! '' `` who dat ? den preach to him yourself , '' sullenli turn to go . `` No , cook ; go on , go on . '' `` well , den , belub fellow - critter : '' - `` right ! '' exclaim stubb , approvingli , `` coax ' em to it ; tri that , '' and fleec continu . `` Do you is all shark , and by natur weri woraci , yet I zay to you , fellow - critter , dat dat woraci -- ' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! how you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ? '' `` cook , '' cri stubb , collar him , `` I won ' t have that swear . talk to ' em gentlemanli . '' onc more the sermon proceed . `` your woraci , fellow - critter , I don ' t blame ye so much for ; dat is natur , and can ' t be help ; but to gobern dat wick natur , dat is de pint . you is shark , sartin ; but if you gobern de shark in you , whi den you be angel ; for all angel is not ' ing more dan de shark well gobern . now , look here , bred ' ren , just tri wonst to be cibil , a help yourselb from dat whale . don ' t be tearin ' de blubber out your neighbour ' s mout , I say . Is not one shark dood right as toder to dat whale ? and , by gor , none on you ha de right to dat whale ; dat whale belong to some one els . I know some o ' you ha berri brig mout , brigger dan oder ; but den de brig mout sometim ha de small belli ; so dat de brig of de mout is not to swaller wid , but to bit off de blubber for de small fri ob shark , dat can ' t get into de scroug to help demselv . '' `` well done , old fleec ! '' cri stubb , `` that ' s christian ; go on . '' `` No use goin ' on ; de dam willain will keep a scougin ' and slappin ' each oder , massa stubb ; dey don ' t hear one word ; no use a - preach to such dam g ' utton as you call ' em , till dare belli is full , and dare belli is bottomless ; and when dey do get ' em full , dey wont hear you den ; for den dey sink in the sea , go fast to sleep on de coral , and can ' t hear note at all , no more , for eber and eber . '' `` upon my soul , I am about of the same opinion ; so give the benedict , fleec , and I ' ll away to my supper . '' upon thi , fleec , hold both hand over the fishi mob , rais hi shrill voic , and cri -- `` cuss fellow - critter ! kick up de damndest row as ever you can ; fill your dam belli ' till dey bust -- and den die . '' `` now , cook , '' said stubb , resum hi supper at the capstan ; `` stand just where you stood befor , there , over against me , and pay particular attent . '' `` all ' dention , '' said fleec , again stoop over upon hi tong in the desir posit . `` well , '' said stubb , help himself freeli meanwhil ; `` I shall now go back to the subject of thi steak . In the first place , how old are you , cook ? '' `` what dat do wid de ' teak , '' said the old black , testili . `` silenc ! how old are you , cook ? '' `` ' bout nineti , dey say , '' he gloomili mutter . `` and you have live in thi world hard upon one hundr year , cook , and don ' t know yet how to cook a whale - steak ? '' rapidli bolt anoth mouth at the last word , so that morsel seem a continu of the question . `` where were you born , cook ? '' `` ' hind de hatchway , in ferri - boat , goin ' ober de roanok . '' `` born in a ferri - boat ! that ' s queer , too . but I want to know what countri you were born in , cook ! '' `` didn ' t I say de roanok countri ? '' he cri sharpli . `` No , you didn ' t , cook ; but I ' ll tell you what I ' m come to , cook . you must go home and be born over again ; you don ' t know how to cook a whale - steak yet . '' `` bress my soul , if I cook noder one , '' he growl , angrili , turn round to depart . `` come back here , cook ; -- here , hand me those tong ; -- now take that bit of steak there , and tell me if you think that steak cook as it should be ? take it , I say `` -- hold the tong toward him -- '' take it , and tast it . '' faintli smack hi wither lip over it for a moment , the old negro mutter , `` best cook ' teak I eber tast ; joosi , berri joosi . '' `` cook , '' said stubb , squar himself onc more ; `` do you belong to the church ? '' `` pass one onc in cape - down , '' said the old man sullenli . `` and you have onc in your life pass a holi church in cape - town , where you doubtless overheard a holi parson address hi hearer as hi belov fellow - creatur , have you , cook ! and yet you come here , and tell me such a dread lie as you did just now , eh ? '' said stubb . `` where do you expect to go to , cook ? '' `` Go to bed berri soon , '' he mumbl , half - turn as he spoke . `` avast ! heav to ! I mean when you die , cook . It ' s an aw question . now what ' s your answer ? '' `` when di old brack man die , '' said the negro slowli , chang hi whole air and demeanor , `` he hisself won ' t go nowher ; but some bress angel will come and fetch him . '' `` fetch him ? how ? In a coach and four , as they fetch elijah ? and fetch him where ? '' `` Up dere , '' said fleec , hold hi tong straight over hi head , and keep it there veri solemnli . `` So , then , you expect to go up into our main - top , do you , cook , when you are dead ? but don ' t you know the higher you climb , the colder it get ? main - top , eh ? '' `` didn ' t say dat t ' all , '' said fleec , again in the sulk . `` you said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tong are point . but , perhap you expect to get into heaven by crawl through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rig . It ' s a ticklish busi , but must be done , or els it ' s no go . but none of us are in heaven yet . drop your tong , cook , and hear my order . Do ye hear ? hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m give my order , cook . what ! that your heart , there ? -- that ' s your gizzard ! aloft ! aloft ! -- that ' s it -- now you have it . hold it there now , and pay attent . '' `` all ' dention , '' said the old black , with both hand place as desir , vainli wriggl hi grizzl head , as if to get both ear in front at one and the same time . `` well then , cook , you see thi whale - steak of your wa so veri bad , that I have put it out of sight as soon as possibl ; you see that , don ' t you ? well , for the futur , when you cook anoth whale - steak for my privat tabl here , the capstan , I ' ll tell you what to do so as not to spoil it by overdo . hold the steak in one hand , and show a live coal to it with the other ; that done , dish it ; d ' ye hear ? and now to - morrow , cook , when we are cut in the fish , be sure you stand by to get the tip of hi fin ; have them put in pickl . As for the end of the fluke , have them sous , cook . there , now ye may go . '' but fleec had hardli got three pace off , when he wa recal . `` cook , give me cutlet for supper to - morrow night in the mid - watch . D ' ye hear ? away you sail , then . -- halloa ! stop ! make a bow befor you go . -- avast heav again ! whale - ball for breakfast -- don ' t forget . '' `` wish , by gor ! whale eat him , ' stead of him eat whale . I ' m bress if he ain ' t more of shark dan massa shark hisself , '' mutter the old man , limp away ; with which sage ejacul he went to hi hammock . chapter 65 the whale as a dish . that mortal man should feed upon the creatur that feed hi lamp , and , like stubb , eat him by hi own light , as you may say ; thi seem so outlandish a thing that one must need go a littl into the histori and philosophi of it . It is upon record , that three centuri ago the tongu of the right whale wa esteem a great delicaci in franc , and command larg price there . also , that in henri viiith ' s time , a certain cook of the court obtain a handsom reward for invent an admir sauc to be eaten with barbacu porpois , which , you rememb , are a speci of whale . porpois , inde , are to thi day consid fine eat . the meat is made into ball about the size of billiard ball , and be well season and spice might be taken for turtl - ball or veal ball . the old monk of dunfermlin were veri fond of them . they had a great porpois grant from the crown . the fact is , that among hi hunter at least , the whale would by all hand be consid a nobl dish , were there not so much of him ; but when you come to sit down befor a meat - pie nearli one hundr feet long , it take away your appetit . onli the most unprejud of men like stubb , nowaday partak of cook whale ; but the esquimaux are not so fastidi . We all know how they live upon whale , and have rare old vintag of prime old train oil . zogranda , one of their most famou doctor , recommend strip of blubber for infant , as be exceedingli juici and nourish . and thi remind me that certain englishmen , who long ago were accident left in greenland by a whale vessel -- that these men actual live for sever month on the mouldi scrap of whale which had been left ashor after tri out the blubber . among the dutch whalemen these scrap are call `` fritter `` ; which , inde , they greatli resembl , be brown and crisp , and smell someth like old amsterdam housew ' dough - nut or oli - cook , when fresh . they have such an eatabl look that the most self - deni stranger can hardli keep hi hand off . but what further depreci the whale as a civil dish , is hi exceed rich . He is the great prize ox of the sea , too fat to be delic good . look at hi hump , which would be as fine eat as the buffalo ' s ( which is esteem a rare dish ) , were it not such a solid pyramid of fat . but the spermaceti itself , how bland and creami that is ; like the transpar , half - jelli , white meat of a cocoanut in the third month of it growth , yet far too rich to suppli a substitut for butter . nevertheless , mani whalemen have a method of absorb it into some other substanc , and then partak of it . In the long tri watch of the night it is a common thing for the seamen to dip their ship - biscuit into the huge oil - pot and let them fri there awhil . mani a good supper have I thu made . In the case of a small sperm whale the brain are account a fine dish . the casket of the skull is broken into with an axe , and the two plump , whitish lobe be withdrawn ( precis resembl two larg pud ) , they are then mix with flour , and cook into a most delect mess , in flavor somewhat resembl calv ' head , which is quit a dish among some epicur ; and everi one know that some young buck among the epicur , by continu dine upon calv ' brain , by and by get to have a littl brain of their own , so as to be abl to tell a calf ' s head from their own head ; which , inde , requir uncommon discrimin . and that is the reason whi a young buck with an intellig look calf ' s head befor him , is somehow one of the saddest sight you can see . the head look a sort of reproach at him , with an `` Et tu brute ! '' express . It is not , perhap , entir becaus the whale is so excess unctuou that landsmen seem to regard the eat of him with abhorr ; that appear to result , in some way , from the consider befor mention : i . e . that a man should eat a newli murder thing of the sea , and eat it too by it own light . but no doubt the first man that ever murder an ox wa regard as a murder ; perhap he wa hung ; and if he had been put on hi trial by oxen , he certainli would have been ; and he certainli deserv it if ani murder doe . Go to the meat - market of a saturday night and see the crowd of live bipe stare up at the long row of dead quadrup . doe not that sight take a tooth out of the cannib ' s jaw ? cannib ? who is not a cannib ? I tell you it will be more toler for the feje that salt down a lean missionari in hi cellar against a come famin ; it will be more toler for that provid feje , I say , in the day of judgment , than for thee , civil and enlighten gourmand , who nailest gees to the ground and feastest on their bloat liver in thi pate - de - foie - gra . but stubb , he eat the whale by it own light , doe he ? and that is ad insult to injuri , is it ? look at your knife - handl , there , my civil and enlighten gourmand dine off that roast beef , what is that handl made of ? -- what but the bone of the brother of the veri ox you are eat ? and what do you pick your teeth with , after devour that fat goos ? with a feather of the same fowl . and with what quill did the secretari of the societi for the suppress of cruelti to gander formal indit hi circular ? It is onli within the last month or two that that societi pass a resolut to patronis noth but steel pen . chapter 66 the shark massacr . when in the southern fisheri , a captur sperm whale , after long and weari toil , is brought alongsid late at night , it is not , as a gener thing at least , customari to proceed at onc to the busi of cut him in . for that busi is an exceedingli labori one ; is not veri soon complet ; and requir all hand to set about it . therefor , the common usag is to take in all sail ; lash the helm a ' lee ; and then send everi one below to hi hammock till daylight , with the reserv that , until that time , anchor - watch shall be kept ; that is , two and two for an hour , each coupl , the crew in rotat shall mount the deck to see that all goe well . but sometim , especi upon the line in the pacif , thi plan will not answer at all ; becaus such incalcul host of shark gather round the moor carcas , that were he left so for six hour , say , on a stretch , littl more than the skeleton would be visibl by morn . In most other part of the ocean , howev , where these fish do not so larg abound , their wondrou vorac can be at time consider diminish , by vigor stir them up with sharp whale - spade , a procedur notwithstand , which , in some instanc , onli seem to tickl them into still greater activ . but it wa not thu in the present case with the pequod ' s shark ; though , to be sure , ani man unaccustom to such sight , to have look over her side that night , would have almost thought the whole round sea wa one huge chees , and those shark the maggot in it . nevertheless , upon stubb set the anchor - watch after hi supper wa conclud ; and when , accordingli , queequeg and a forecastl seaman came on deck , no small excit wa creat among the shark ; for immedi suspend the cut stage over the side , and lower three lantern , so that they cast long gleam of light over the turbid sea , these two marin , dart their long whale - spade , kept up an incess murder of the shark , * by strike the keen steel deep into their skull , seemingli their onli vital part . but in the foami confus of their mix and struggl host , the marksmen could not alway hit their mark ; and thi brought about new revel of the incred feroc of the foe . they vicious snap , not onli at each other ' s disembowel , but like flexibl bow , bent round , and bit their own ; till those entrail seem swallow over and over again by the same mouth , to be opposit void by the gape wound . nor wa thi all . It wa unsaf to meddl with the corps and ghost of these creatur . A sort of gener or pantheist vital seem to lurk in their veri joint and bone , after what might be call the individu life had depart . kill and hoist on deck for the sake of hi skin , one of these shark almost took poor queequeg ' s hand off , when he tri to shut down the dead lid of hi murder jaw . * the whale - spade use for cut - in is made of the veri best steel ; is about the big of a man ' s spread hand ; and in gener shape , correspond to the garden implement after which it is name ; onli it side are perfectli flat , and it upper end consider narrow than the lower . thi weapon is alway kept as sharp as possibl ; and when be use is occasion hone , just like a razor . In it socket , a stiff pole , from twenti to thirti feet long , is insert for a handl . `` queequeg no care what god made him shark , '' said the savag , agonizingli lift hi hand up and down ; `` wedder feje god or nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam ingin . '' chapter 67 cut In . It wa a saturday night , and such a sabbath as follow ! Ex officio professor of sabbath break are all whalemen . the ivori pequod wa turn into what seem a shambl ; everi sailor a butcher . you would have thought we were offer up ten thousand red oxen to the sea god . In the first place , the enorm cut tackl , among other ponder thing compris a cluster of block gener paint green , and which no singl man can possibl lift -- thi vast bunch of grape wa sway up to the main - top and firmli lash to the lower mast - head , the strongest point anywher abov a ship ' s deck . the end of the hawser - like rope wind through these intricaci , wa then conduct to the windlass , and the huge lower block of the tackl wa swung over the whale ; to thi block the great blubber hook , weigh some one hundr pound , wa attach . and now suspend in stage over the side , starbuck and stubb , the mate , arm with their long spade , began cut a hole in the bodi for the insert of the hook just abov the nearest of the two side - fin . thi done , a broad , semicircular line is cut round the hole , the hook is insert , and the main bodi of the crew strike up a wild choru , now commenc heav in one dens crowd at the windlass . when instantli , the entir ship careen over on her side ; everi bolt in her start like the nail - head of an old hous in frosti weather ; she trembl , quiver , and nod her fright mast - head to the sky . more and more she lean over to the whale , while everi gasp heav of the windlass is answer by a help heav from the billow ; till at last , a swift , startl snap is heard ; with a great swash the ship roll upward and backward from the whale , and the triumphant tackl rise into sight drag after it the disengag semicircular end of the first strip of blubber . now as the blubber envelop the whale precis as the rind doe an orang , so is it strip off from the bodi precis as an orang is sometim strip by spiral it . for the strain constantli kept up by the windlass continu keep the whale roll over and over in the water , and as the blubber in one strip uniformli peel off along the line call the `` scarf , '' simultan cut by the spade of starbuck and stubb , the mate ; and just as fast as it is thu peel off , and inde by that veri act itself , it is all the time be hoist higher and higher aloft till it upper end graze the main - top ; the men at the windlass then ceas heav , and for a moment or two the prodigi blood - drip mass sway to and fro as if let down from the sky , and everi one present must take good heed to dodg it when it swing , els it may box hi ear and pitch him headlong overboard . one of the attend harpoon now advanc with a long , keen weapon call a board - sword , and watch hi chanc he dexter slice out a consider hole in the lower part of the sway mass . into thi hole , the end of the second altern great tackl is then hook so as to retain a hold upon the blubber , in order to prepar for what follow . whereupon , thi accomplish swordsman , warn all hand to stand off , onc more make a scientif dash at the mass , and with a few sidelong , desper , lung slice , sever it complet in twain ; so that while the short lower part is still fast , the long upper strip , call a blanket - piec , swing clear , and is all readi for lower . the heaver forward now resum their song , and while the one tackl is peel and hoist a second strip from the whale , the other is slowli slacken away , and down goe the first strip through the main hatchway right beneath , into an unfurnish parlor call the blubber - room . into thi twilight apart sundri nimbl hand keep coil away the long blanket - piec as if it were a great live mass of plait serpent . and thu the work proce ; the two tackl hoist and lower simultan ; both whale and windlass heav , the heaver sing , the blubber - room gentlemen coil , the mate scarf , the ship strain , and all hand swear occasion , by way of assuag the gener friction . chapter 68 the blanket . I have given no small attent to that not unvex subject , the skin of the whale . I have had controversi about it with experienc whalemen afloat , and learn naturalist ashor . My origin opinion remain unchang ; but it is onli an opinion . the question is , what and where is the skin of the whale ? alreadi you know what hi blubber is . that blubber is someth of the consist of firm , close - grain beef , but tougher , more elast and compact , and rang from eight or ten to twelv and fifteen inch in thick . now , howev preposter it may at first seem to talk of ani creatur ' s skin as be of that sort of consist and thick , yet in point of fact these are no argument against such a presumpt ; becaus you can not rais ani other dens envelop layer from the whale ' s bodi but that same blubber ; and the outermost envelop layer of ani anim , if reason dens , what can that be but the skin ? true , from the unmar dead bodi of the whale , you may scrape off with your hand an infinit thin , transpar substanc , somewhat resembl the thinnest shred of isinglass , onli it is almost as flexibl and soft as satin ; that is , previou to be dri , when it not onli contract and thicken , but becom rather hard and brittl . I have sever such dri bit , which I use for mark in my whale - book . It is transpar , as I said befor ; and be laid upon the print page , I have sometim pleas myself with fanci it exert a magnifi influenc . At ani rate , it is pleasant to read about whale through their own spectacl , as you may say . but what I am drive at here is thi . that same infinit thin , isinglass substanc , which , I admit , invest the entir bodi of the whale , is not so much to be regard as the skin of the creatur , as the skin of the skin , so to speak ; for it were simpli ridicul to say , that the proper skin of the tremend whale is thinner and more tender than the skin of a new - born child . but no more of thi . assum the blubber to be the skin of the whale ; then , when thi skin , as in the case of a veri larg sperm whale , will yield the bulk of one hundr barrel of oil ; and , when it is consid that , in quantiti , or rather weight , that oil , in it express state , is onli three fourth , and not the entir substanc of the coat ; some idea may henc be had of the enorm of that anim mass , a mere part of whose mere integu yield such a lake of liquid as that . reckon ten barrel to the ton , you have ten ton for the net weight of onli three quarter of the stuff of the whale ' s skin . In life , the visibl surfac of the sperm whale is not the least among the mani marvel he present . almost invari it is all over obliqu cross and re - cross with numberless straight mark in thick array , someth like those in the finest italian line engrav . but these mark do not seem to be impress upon the isinglass substanc abov mention , but seem to be seen through it , as if they were engrav upon the bodi itself . nor is thi all . In some instanc , to the quick , observ eye , those linear mark , as in a verit engrav , but afford the ground for far other delin . these are hieroglyph ; that is , if you call those mysteri cypher on the wall of pyramid hieroglyph , then that is the proper word to use in the present connexion . By my retent memori of the hieroglyph upon one sperm whale in particular , I wa much struck with a plate repres the old indian charact chisel on the famou hieroglyph palisad on the bank of the upper mississippi . like those mystic rock , too , the mystic - mark whale remain undecipher . thi allus to the indian rock remind me of anoth thing . besid all the other phenomena which the exterior of the sperm whale present , he not seldom display the back , and more especi hi flank , effac in great part of the regular linear appear , by reason of numer rude scratch , altogeth of an irregular , random aspect . I should say that those new england rock on the sea - coast , which agassiz imagin to bear the mark of violent scrape contact with vast float iceberg -- I should say , that those rock must not a littl resembl the sperm whale in thi particular . It also seem to me that such scratch in the whale are probabl made by hostil contact with other whale ; for I have most remark them in the larg , full - grown bull of the speci . A word or two more concern thi matter of the skin or blubber of the whale . It ha alreadi been said , that it is stript from him in long piec , call blanket - piec . like most sea - term , thi one is veri happi and signific . for the whale is inde wrapt up in hi blubber as in a real blanket or counterpan ; or , still better , an indian poncho slipt over hi head , and skirt hi extrem . It is by reason of thi cosi blanket of hi bodi , that the whale is enabl to keep himself comfort in all weather , in all sea , time , and tide . what would becom of a greenland whale , say , in those shudder , ici sea of the north , if unsuppli with hi cosi surtout ? true , other fish are found exceedingli brisk in those hyperborean water ; but these , be it observ , are your cold - blood , lungless fish , whose veri belli are refriger ; creatur , that warm themselv under the lee of an iceberg , as a travel in winter would bask befor an inn fire ; wherea , like man , the whale ha lung and warm blood . freez hi blood , and he die . how wonder is it then -- except after explan -- that thi great monster , to whom corpor warmth is as indispens as it is to man ; how wonder that he should be found at home , immers to hi lip for life in those arctic water ! where , when seamen fall overboard , they are sometim found , month afterward , perpendicularli frozen into the heart of field of ice , as a fli is found glu in amber . but more surpris is it to know , as ha been prove by experi , that the blood of a polar whale is warmer than that of a borneo negro in summer . It doe seem to me , that herein we see the rare virtu of a strong individu vital , and the rare virtu of thick wall , and the rare virtu of interior spacious . Oh , man ! admir and model thyself after the whale ! Do thou , too , remain warm among ice . Do thou , too , live in thi world without be of it . Be cool at the equat ; keep thi blood fluid at the pole . like the great dome of St . peter ' s , and like the great whale , retain , O man ! in all season a temperatur of thine own . but how easi and how hopeless to teach these fine thing ! Of erect , how few are dome like St . peter ' s ! of creatur , how few vast as the whale ! chapter 69 the funer . haul in the chain ! let the carcas go astern ! the vast tackl have now done their duti . the peel white bodi of the behead whale flash like a marbl sepulchr ; though chang in hue , it ha not percept lost anyth in bulk . It is still coloss . slowli it float more and more away , the water round it torn and splash by the insati shark , and the air abov vex with rapaci flight of scream fowl , whose beak are like so mani insult poniard in the whale . the vast white headless phantom float further and further from the ship , and everi rod that it so float , what seem squar rood of shark and cubic rood of fowl , augment the murder din . for hour and hour from the almost stationari ship that hideou sight is seen . beneath the uncloud and mild azur sky , upon the fair face of the pleasant sea , waft by the joyou breez , that great mass of death float on and on , till lost in infinit perspect . there ' s a most dole and most mock funer ! the sea - vultur all in piou mourn , the air - shark all punctili in black or speckl . In life but few of them would have help the whale , I ween , if peradventur he had need it ; but upon the banquet of hi funer they most piousli do pounc . Oh , horribl vultur of earth ! from which not the mightiest whale is free . nor is thi the end . desecr as the bodi is , a veng ghost surviv and hover over it to scare . espi by some timid man - of - war or blunder discoveri - vessel from afar , when the distanc obscur the swarm fowl , nevertheless still show the white mass float in the sun , and the white spray heav high against it ; straightway the whale ' s unharm corps , with trembl finger is set down in the log -- shoal , rock , and breaker hereabout : bewar ! and for year afterward , perhap , ship shun the place ; leap over it as silli sheep leap over a vacuum , becaus their leader origin leap there when a stick wa held . there ' s your law of preced ; there ' s your util of tradit ; there ' s the stori of your obstin surviv of old belief never bottom on the earth , and now not even hover in the air ! there ' s orthodoxi ! thu , while in life the great whale ' s bodi may have been a real terror to hi foe , in hi death hi ghost becom a powerless panic to a world . are you a believ in ghost , my friend ? there are other ghost than the cock - lane one , and far deeper men than doctor johnson who believ in them . chapter 70 the sphynx . It should not have been omit that previou to complet strip the bodi of the leviathan , he wa behead . now , the behead of the sperm whale is a scientif anatom feat , upon which experienc whale surgeon veri much pride themselv : and not without reason . consid that the whale ha noth that can properli be call a neck ; on the contrari , where hi head and bodi seem to join , there , in that veri place , is the thickest part of him . rememb , also , that the surgeon must oper from abov , some eight or ten feet interven between him and hi subject , and that subject almost hidden in a discolour , roll , and oftentim tumultu and burst sea . bear in mind , too , that under these untoward circumst he ha to cut mani feet deep in the flesh ; and in that subterran manner , without so much as get one singl peep into the ever - contract gash thu made , he must skil steer clear of all adjac , interdict part , and exactli divid the spine at a critic point hard by it insert into the skull . Do you not marvel , then , at stubb ' s boast , that he demand but ten minut to behead a sperm whale ? when first sever , the head is drop astern and held there by a cabl till the bodi is strip . that done , if it belong to a small whale it is hoist on deck to be deliber dispos of . but , with a full grown leviathan thi is imposs ; for the sperm whale ' s head embrac nearli one third of hi entir bulk , and complet to suspend such a burden as that , even by the immens tackl of a whaler , thi were as vain a thing as to attempt weigh a dutch barn in jewel ' scale . the pequod ' s whale be decapit and the bodi strip , the head wa hoist against the ship ' s side -- about half way out of the sea , so that it might yet in great part be buoy up by it nativ element . and there with the strain craft steepli lean over to it , by reason of the enorm downward drag from the lower mast - head , and everi yard - arm on that side project like a crane over the wave ; there , that blood - drip head hung to the pequod ' s waist like the giant holofern ' s from the girdl of judith . when thi last task wa accomplish it wa noon , and the seamen went below to their dinner . silenc reign over the befor tumultu but now desert deck . An intens copper calm , like a univers yellow lotu , wa more and more unfold it noiseless measureless leav upon the sea . A short space elaps , and up into thi noiseless came ahab alon from hi cabin . take a few turn on the quarter - deck , he paus to gaze over the side , then slowli get into the main - chain he took stubb ' s long spade -- still remain there after the whale ' s decapit -- and strike it into the lower part of the half - suspend mass , place it other end crutch - wise under one arm , and so stood lean over with eye attent fix on thi head . It wa a black and hood head ; and hang there in the midst of so intens a calm , it seem the sphynx ' s in the desert . `` speak , thou vast and vener head , '' mutter ahab , `` which , though ungarnish with a beard , yet here and there lookest hoari with moss ; speak , mighti head , and tell us the secret thing that is in thee . Of all diver , thou hast dive the deepest . that head upon which the upper sun now gleam , ha move amid thi world ' s foundat . where unrecord name and navi rust , and untold hope and anchor rot ; where in her murder hold thi frigat earth is ballast with bone of million of the drown ; there , in that aw water - land , there wa thi most familiar home . thou hast been where bell or diver never went ; hast slept by mani a sailor ' s side , where sleepless mother would give their live to lay them down . thou saw ' st the lock lover when leap from their flame ship ; heart to heart they sank beneath the exult wave ; true to each other , when heaven seem fals to them . thou saw ' st the murder mate when toss by pirat from the midnight deck ; for hour he fell into the deeper midnight of the insati maw ; and hi murder still sail on unharm -- while swift lightn shiver the neighbor ship that would have born a righteou husband to outstretch , long arm . O head ! thou hast seen enough to split the planet and make an infidel of abraham , and not one syllabl is thine ! '' `` sail ho ! '' cri a triumphant voic from the main - mast - head . `` aye ? well , now , that ' s cheer , '' cri ahab , suddenli erect himself , while whole thunder - cloud swept asid from hi brow . `` that live cri upon thi deadli calm might almost convert a better man . -- where away ? '' `` three point on the starboard bow , sir , and bring down her breez to us ! `` better and better , man . would now St . paul would come along that way , and to my breezeless bring hi breez ! O natur , and O soul of man ! how far beyond all utter are your link analog ! not the smallest atom stir or live on matter , but ha it cun duplic in mind . '' chapter 71 the jeroboam ' s stori . hand in hand , ship and breez blew on ; but the breez came faster than the ship , and soon the pequod began to rock . By and by , through the glass the stranger ' s boat and man mast - head prove her a whale - ship . but as she wa so far to windward , and shoot by , appar make a passag to some other ground , the pequod could not hope to reach her . So the signal wa set to see what respons would be made . here be it said , that like the vessel of militari marin , the ship of the american whale fleet have each a privat signal ; all which signal be collect in a book with the name of the respect vessel attach , everi captain is provid with it . therebi , the whale command are enabl to recognis each other upon the ocean , even at consider distanc and with no small facil . the pequod ' s signal wa at last respond to by the stranger ' s set her own ; which prove the ship to be the jeroboam of nantucket . squar her yard , she bore down , rang abeam under the pequod ' s lee , and lower a boat ; it soon drew nigh ; but , as the side - ladder wa be rig by starbuck ' s order to accommod the visit captain , the stranger in question wave hi hand from hi boat ' s stern in token of that proceed be entir unnecessari . It turn out that the jeroboam had a malign epidem on board , and that mayhew , her captain , wa fear of infect the pequod ' s compani . for , though himself and boat ' s crew remain untaint , and though hi ship wa half a rifl - shot off , and an incorrupt sea and air roll and flow between ; yet conscienti adher to the timid quarantin of the land , he peremptorili refus to come into direct contact with the pequod . but thi did by no mean prevent all commun . preserv an interv of some few yard between itself and the ship , the jeroboam ' s boat by the occasion use of it oar contriv to keep parallel to the pequod , as she heavili forg through the sea ( for by thi time it blew veri fresh ) , with her main - topsail aback ; though , inde , at time by the sudden onset of a larg roll wave , the boat would be push some way ahead ; but would be soon skil brought to her proper bear again . subject to thi , and other the like interrupt now and then , a convers wa sustain between the two parti ; but at interv not without still anoth interrupt of a veri differ sort . pull an oar in the jeroboam ' s boat , wa a man of a singular appear , even in that wild whale life where individu notabl make up all total . He wa a small , short , youngish man , sprinkl all over hi face with freckl , and wear redund yellow hair . A long - skirt , cabalist - cut coat of a fade walnut ting envelop him ; the overlap sleev of which were roll up on hi wrist . A deep , settl , fanat delirium wa in hi eye . So soon as thi figur had been first descri , stubb had exclaim -- '' that ' s he ! that ' s he ! -- the long - tog scaramouch the town - Ho ' s compani told us of ! '' stubb here allud to a strang stori told of the jeroboam , and a certain man among her crew , some time previou when the pequod spoke the town - Ho . accord to thi account and what wa subsequ learn , it seem that the scaramouch in question had gain a wonder ascend over almost everybodi in the jeroboam . hi stori wa thi : He had been origin nurtur among the crazi societi of neskyeuna shaker , where he had been a great prophet ; in their crack , secret meet have sever time descend from heaven by the way of a trap - door , announc the speedi open of the seventh vial , which he carri in hi vest - pocket ; but , which , instead of contain gunpowd , wa suppos to be charg with laudanum . A strang , apostol whim have seiz him , he had left neskyeuna for nantucket , where , with that cun peculiar to crazi , he assum a steadi , common - sens exterior , and offer himself as a green - hand candid for the jeroboam ' s whale voyag . they engag him ; but straightway upon the ship ' s get out of sight of land , hi insan broke out in a freshet . He announc himself as the archangel gabriel , and command the captain to jump overboard . He publish hi manifesto , wherebi he set himself forth as the deliver of the isl of the sea and vicar - gener of all oceanica . the unflinch earnest with which he declar these thing ; -- the dark , dare play of hi sleepless , excit imagin , and all the preternatur terror of real delirium , unit to invest thi gabriel in the mind of the major of the ignor crew , with an atmospher of sacred . moreov , they were afraid of him . As such a man , howev , wa not of much practic use in the ship , especi as he refus to work except when he pleas , the incredul captain would fain have been rid of him ; but appris that that individu ' s intent wa to land him in the first conveni port , the archangel forthwith open all hi seal and vial -- devot the ship and all hand to uncondit perdit , in case thi intent wa carri out . So strongli did he work upon hi discipl among the crew , that at last in a bodi they went to the captain and told him if gabriel wa sent from the ship , not a man of them would remain . He wa therefor forc to relinquish hi plan . nor would they permit gabriel to be ani way maltreat , say or do what he would ; so that it came to pass that gabriel had the complet freedom of the ship . the consequ of all thi wa , that the archangel care littl or noth for the captain and mate ; and sinc the epidem had broken out , he carri a higher hand than ever ; declar that the plagu , as he call it , wa at hi sole command ; nor should it be stay but accord to hi good pleasur . the sailor , mostli poor devil , cring , and some of them fawn befor him ; in obedi to hi instruct , sometim render him person homag , as to a god . such thing may seem incred ; but , howev wondrou , they are true . nor is the histori of fanat half so strike in respect to the measureless self - decept of the fanat himself , as hi measureless power of deceiv and bedevil so mani other . but it is time to return to the pequod . `` I fear not thi epidem , man , '' said ahab from the bulwark , to captain mayhew , who stood in the boat ' s stern ; `` come on board . '' but now gabriel start to hi feet . `` think , think of the fever , yellow and biliou ! bewar of the horribl plagu ! '' `` gabriel ! gabriel ! '' cri captain mayhew ; `` thou must either -- '' but that instant a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead , and it seeth drown all speech . `` hast thou seen the white whale ? '' demand ahab , when the boat drift back . `` think , think of thi whale - boat , stoven and sunk ! bewar of the horribl tail ! '' `` I tell thee again , gabriel , that -- '' but again the boat tore ahead as if drag by fiend . noth wa said for some moment , while a success of riotou wave roll by , which by one of those occasion capric of the sea were tumbl , not heav it . meantim , the hoist sperm whale ' s head jog about veri violent , and gabriel wa seen eye it with rather more apprehens than hi archangel natur seem to warrant . when thi interlud wa over , captain mayhew began a dark stori concern mobi dick ; not , howev , without frequent interrupt from gabriel , whenev hi name wa mention , and the crazi sea that seem leagu with him . It seem that the jeroboam had not long left home , when upon speak a whale - ship , her peopl were reliabl appris of the exist of mobi dick , and the havoc he had made . greedili suck in thi intellig , gabriel solemnli warn the captain against attack the white whale , in case the monster should be seen ; in hi gibber insan , pronounc the white whale to be no less a be than the shaker god incarn ; the shaker receiv the bibl . but when , some year or two afterward , mobi dick wa fairli sight from the mast - head , macey , the chief mate , burn with ardour to encount him ; and the captain himself be not unwil to let him have the opportun , despit all the archangel ' s denunci and forewarn , macey succeed in persuad five men to man hi boat . with them he push off ; and , after much weari pull , and mani peril , unsuccess onset , he at last succeed in get one iron fast . meantim , gabriel , ascend to the main - royal mast - head , wa toss one arm in frantic gestur , and hurl forth propheci of speedi doom to the sacrilegi assail of hi divin . now , while macey , the mate , wa stand up in hi boat ' s bow , and with all the reckless energi of hi tribe wa vent hi wild exclam upon the whale , and essay to get a fair chanc for hi pois lanc , lo ! a broad white shadow rose from the sea ; by it quick , fan motion , temporarili take the breath out of the bodi of the oarsmen . next instant , the luckless mate , so full of furiou life , wa smitten bodili into the air , and make a long arc in hi descent , fell into the sea at the distanc of about fifti yard . not a chip of the boat wa harm , nor a hair of ani oarsman ' s head ; but the mate for ever sank . It is well to parenthes here , that of the fatal accid in the sperm - whale fisheri , thi kind is perhap almost as frequent as ani . sometim , noth is injur but the man who is thu annihil ; often the boat ' s bow is knock off , or the thigh - board , in which the headsman stand , is torn from it place and accompani the bodi . but strangest of all is the circumst , that in more instanc than one , when the bodi ha been recov , not a singl mark of violenc is discern ; the man be stark dead . the whole calam , with the fall form of macey , wa plainli descri from the ship . rais a pierc shriek -- '' the vial ! the vial ! '' gabriel call off the terror - stricken crew from the further hunt of the whale . thi terribl event cloth the archangel with ad influenc ; becaus hi credul discipl believ that he had specif fore - announc it , instead of onli make a gener propheci , which ani one might have done , and so have chanc to hit one of mani mark in the wide margin allow . He becam a nameless terror to the ship . mayhew have conclud hi narrat , ahab put such question to him , that the stranger captain could not forbear inquir whether he intend to hunt the white whale , if opportun should offer . To which ahab answer -- '' aye . '' straightway , then , gabriel onc more start to hi feet , glare upon the old man , and vehement exclaim , with downward point finger -- '' think , think of the blasphem -- dead , and down there ! -- bewar of the blasphem ' s end ! '' ahab stolidli turn asid ; then said to mayhew , `` captain , I have just bethought me of my letter - bag ; there is a letter for one of thi offic , if I mistak not . starbuck , look over the bag . '' everi whale - ship take out a goodli number of letter for variou ship , whose deliveri to the person to whom they may be address , depend upon the mere chanc of encount them in the four ocean . thu , most letter never reach their mark ; and mani are onli receiv after attain an age of two or three year or more . soon starbuck return with a letter in hi hand . It wa sore tumbl , damp , and cover with a dull , spot , green mould , in consequ of be kept in a dark locker of the cabin . Of such a letter , death himself might well have been the post - boy . `` can ' st not read it ? '' cri ahab . `` give it me , man . aye , aye , it ' s but a dim scrawl ; -- what ' s thi ? '' As he wa studi it out , starbuck took a long cut - spade pole , and with hi knife slightli split the end , to insert the letter there , and in that way , hand it to the boat , without it come ani closer to the ship . meantim , ahab hold the letter , mutter , `` Mr . har -- ye , Mr . harri -- ( a woman ' s pinni hand , -- the man ' s wife , I ' ll wager ) -- aye -- Mr . harri macey , ship jeroboam ; -- whi it ' s macey , and he ' s dead ! '' `` poor fellow ! poor fellow ! and from hi wife , '' sigh mayhew ; `` but let me have it . '' `` nay , keep it thyself , '' cri gabriel to ahab ; `` thou art soon go that way . '' `` curs throttl thee ! '' yell ahab . `` captain mayhew , stand by now to receiv it `` ; and take the fatal missiv from starbuck ' s hand , he caught it in the slit of the pole , and reach it over toward the boat . but as he did so , the oarsmen expectantli desist from row ; the boat drift a littl toward the ship ' s stern ; so that , as if by magic , the letter suddenli rang along with gabriel ' s eager hand . He clutch it in an instant , seiz the boat - knife , and impal the letter on it , sent it thu load back into the ship . It fell at ahab ' s feet . then gabriel shriek out to hi comrad to give way with their oar , and in that manner the mutin boat rapidli shot away from the pequod . As , after thi interlud , the seamen resum their work upon the jacket of the whale , mani strang thing were hint in refer to thi wild affair . chapter 72 the monkey - rope . In the tumultu busi of cut - in and attend to a whale , there is much run backward and forward among the crew . now hand are want here , and then again hand are want there . there is no stay in ani one place ; for at one and the same time everyth ha to be done everywher . It is much the same with him who endeavor the descript of the scene . We must now retrac our way a littl . It wa mention that upon first break ground in the whale ' s back , the blubber - hook wa insert into the origin hole there cut by the spade of the mate . but how did so clumsi and weighti a mass as that same hook get fix in that hole ? It wa insert there by my particular friend queequeg , whose duti it wa , as harpoon , to descend upon the monster ' s back for the special purpos refer to . but in veri mani case , circumst requir that the harpoon shall remain on the whale till the whole tens or strip oper is conclud . the whale , be it observ , lie almost entir submerg , except the immedi part oper upon . So down there , some ten feet below the level of the deck , the poor harpoon flounder about , half on the whale and half in the water , as the vast mass revolv like a tread - mill beneath him . On the occas in question , queequeg figur in the highland costum -- a shirt and sock -- in which to my eye , at least , he appear to uncommon advantag ; and no one had a better chanc to observ him , as will present be seen . be the savag ' s bowsman , that is , the person who pull the bow - oar in hi boat ( the second one from forward ) , it wa my cheer duti to attend upon him while take that hard - scrabbl scrambl upon the dead whale ' s back . you have seen italian organ - boy hold a danc - ape by a long cord . just so , from the ship ' s steep side , did I hold queequeg down there in the sea , by what is technic call in the fisheri a monkey - rope , attach to a strong strip of canva belt round hi waist . It wa a humor peril busi for both of us . for , befor we proceed further , it must be said that the monkey - rope wa fast at both end ; fast to queequeg ' s broad canva belt , and fast to my narrow leather one . So that for better or for wors , we two , for the time , were wed ; and should poor queequeg sink to rise no more , then both usag and honour demand , that instead of cut the cord , it should drag me down in hi wake . So , then , an elong siames ligatur unit us . queequeg wa my own insepar twin brother ; nor could I ani way get rid of the danger liabil which the hempen bond entail . So strongli and metaphys did I conceiv of my situat then , that while earnestli watch hi motion , I seem distinctli to perceiv that my own individu wa now merg in a joint stock compani of two ; that my free will had receiv a mortal wound ; and that anoth ' s mistak or misfortun might plung innoc me into unmerit disast and death . therefor , I saw that here wa a sort of interregnum in provid ; for it even - hand equiti never could have so gross an injustic . and yet still further ponder -- while I jerk him now and then from between the whale and ship , which would threaten to jam him -- still further ponder , I say , I saw that thi situat of mine wa the precis situat of everi mortal that breath ; onli , in most case , he , one way or other , ha thi siames connexion with a plural of other mortal . If your banker break , you snap ; if your apothecari by mistak send you poison in your pill , you die . true , you may say that , by exceed caution , you may possibl escap these and the multitudin other evil chanc of life . but handl queequeg ' s monkey - rope heed as I would , sometim he jerk it so , that I came veri near slide overboard . nor could I possibl forget that , do what I would , I onli had the manag of one end of it . * * the monkey - rope is found in all whaler ; but it wa onli in the pequod that the monkey and hi holder were ever tie togeth . thi improv upon the origin usag wa introduc by no less a man than stubb , in order to afford the imperil harpoon the strongest possibl guarante for the faith and vigil of hi monkey - rope holder . I have hint that I would often jerk poor queequeg from between the whale and the ship -- where he would occasion fall , from the incess roll and sway of both . but thi wa not the onli jam jeopardi he wa expos to . unappal by the massacr made upon them dure the night , the shark now freshli and more keenli allur by the befor pent blood which began to flow from the carcass -- the rabid creatur swarm round it like bee in a beehiv . and right in among those shark wa queequeg ; who often push them asid with hi flounder feet . A thing altogeth incred were it not that attract by such prey as a dead whale , the otherwis miscellan carnivor shark will seldom touch a man . nevertheless , it may well be believ that sinc they have such a raven finger in the pie , it is deem but wise to look sharp to them . accordingli , besid the monkey - rope , with which I now and then jerk the poor fellow from too close a vicin to the maw of what seem a peculiarli feroci shark -- he wa provid with still anoth protect . suspend over the side in one of the stage , tashtego and daggoo continu flourish over hi head a coupl of keen whale - spade , wherewith they slaughter as mani shark as they could reach . thi procedur of their , to be sure , wa veri disinterest and benevol of them . they meant queequeg ' s best happi , I admit ; but in their hasti zeal to befriend him , and from the circumst that both he and the shark were at time half hidden by the blood - muddl water , those indiscreet spade of their would come nearer amput a leg than a tall . but poor queequeg , I suppos , strain and gasp there with that great iron hook -- poor queequeg , I suppos , onli pray to hi yojo , and gave up hi life into the hand of hi god . well , well , my dear comrad and twin - brother , thought I , as I drew in and then slack off the rope to everi swell of the sea -- what matter it , after all ? are you not the preciou imag of each and all of us men in thi whale world ? that unsound ocean you gasp in , is life ; those shark , your foe ; those spade , your friend ; and what between shark and spade you are in a sad pickl and peril , poor lad . but courag ! there is good cheer in store for you , queequeg . for now , as with blue lip and blood - shot eye the exhaust savag at last climb up the chain and stand all drip and involuntarili trembl over the side ; the steward advanc , and with a benevol , consolatori glanc hand him -- what ? some hot cognac ? No ! hand him , ye god ! hand him a cup of tepid ginger and water ! `` ginger ? Do I smell ginger ? '' suspici ask stubb , come near . `` ye , thi must be ginger , '' peer into the as yet untast cup . then stand as if incredul for a while , he calmli walk toward the astonish steward slowli say , `` ginger ? ginger ? and will you have the good to tell me , Mr . dough - boy , where lie the virtu of ginger ? ginger ! is ginger the sort of fuel you use , dough - boy , to kindl a fire in thi shiver cannib ? ginger ! -- what the devil is ginger ? -- sea - coal ? firewood ? -- lucif match ? -- tinder ? -- gunpowd ? -- what the devil is ginger , I say , that you offer thi cup to our poor queequeg here . '' `` there is some sneak temper societi movement about thi busi , '' he suddenli ad , now approach starbuck , who had just come from forward . `` will you look at that kannakin , sir ; smell of it , if you pleas . '' then watch the mate ' s counten , he ad , `` the steward , Mr . starbuck , had the face to offer that calomel and jalap to queequeg , there , thi instant off the whale . Is the steward an apothecari , sir ? and may I ask whether thi is the sort of bitter by which he blow back the life into a half - drown man ? '' `` I trust not , '' said starbuck , `` it is poor stuff enough . '' `` aye , aye , steward , '' cri stubb , `` we ' ll teach you to drug it harpoon ; none of your apothecari ' s medicin here ; you want to poison us , do ye ? you have got out insur on our live and want to murder us all , and pocket the proce , do ye ? '' `` It wa not me , '' cri dough - boy , `` it wa aunt chariti that brought the ginger on board ; and bade me never give the harpoon ani spirit , but onli thi ginger - jub -- so she call it . '' `` ginger - jub ! you gingerli rascal ! take that ! and run along with ye to the locker , and get someth better . I hope I do no wrong , Mr . starbuck . It is the captain ' s order -- grog for the harpoon on a whale . '' `` enough , '' repli starbuck , `` onli don ' t hit him again , but -- '' `` Oh , I never hurt when I hit , except when I hit a whale or someth of that sort ; and thi fellow ' s a weazel . what were you about say , sir ? '' `` onli thi : go down with him , and get what thou wantest thyself . '' when stubb reappear , he came with a dark flask in one hand , and a sort of tea - caddi in the other . the first contain strong spirit , and wa hand to queequeg ; the second wa aunt chariti ' s gift , and that wa freeli given to the wave . chapter 73 stubb and flask kill a right whale ; and then have a talk over him . It must be born in mind that all thi time we have a sperm whale ' s prodigi head hang to the pequod ' s side . but we must let it continu hang there a while till we can get a chanc to attend to it . for the present other matter press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackl may hold . now , dure the past night and forenoon , the pequod had gradual drift into a sea , which , by it occasion patch of yellow brit , gave unusu token of the vicin of right whale , a speci of the leviathan that but few suppos to be at thi particular time lurk anywher near . and though all hand commonli disdain the captur of those inferior creatur ; and though the pequod wa not commiss to cruis for them at all , and though she had pass number of them near the crozett without lower a boat ; yet now that a sperm whale had been brought alongsid and behead , to the surpris of all , the announc wa made that a right whale should be captur that day , if opportun offer . nor wa thi long want . tall spout were seen to leeward ; and two boat , stubb ' s and flask ' s , were detach in pursuit . pull further and further away , they at last becam almost invis to the men at the mast - head . but suddenli in the distanc , they saw a great heap of tumultu white water , and soon after news came from aloft that one or both the boat must be fast . An interv pass and the boat were in plain sight , in the act of be drag right toward the ship by the tow whale . So close did the monster come to the hull , that at first it seem as if he meant it malic ; but suddenli go down in a maelstrom , within three rod of the plank , he wholli disappear from view , as if dive under the keel . `` cut , cut ! '' wa the cri from the ship to the boat , which , for one instant , seem on the point of be brought with a deadli dash against the vessel ' s side . but have plenti of line yet in the tub , and the whale not sound veri rapidli , they paid out abund of rope , and at the same time pull with all their might so as to get ahead of the ship . for a few minut the struggl wa intens critic ; for while they still slack out the tighten line in one direct , and still pli their oar in anoth , the contend strain threaten to take them under . but it wa onli a few feet advanc they sought to gain . and they stuck to it till they did gain it ; when instantli , a swift tremor wa felt run like lightn along the keel , as the strain line , scrape beneath the ship , suddenli rose to view under her bow , snap and quiver ; and so fling off it drip , that the drop fell like bit of broken glass on the water , while the whale beyond also rose to sight , and onc more the boat were free to fli . but the fag whale abat hi speed , and blindli alter hi cours , went round the stern of the ship tow the two boat after him , so that they perform a complet circuit . meantim , they haul more and more upon their line , till close flank him on both side , stubb answer flask with lanc for lanc ; and thu round and round the pequod the battl went , while the multitud of shark that had befor swum round the sperm whale ' s bodi , rush to the fresh blood that wa spill , thirstili drink at everi new gash , as the eager israelit did at the new burst fountain that pour from the smitten rock . At last hi spout grew thick , and with a fright roll and vomit , he turn upon hi back a corps . while the two headsmen were engag in make fast cord to hi fluke , and in other way get the mass in readi for tow , some convers ensu between them . `` I wonder what the old man want with thi lump of foul lard , '' said stubb , not without some disgust at the thought of have to do with so ignobl a leviathan . `` want with it ? '' said flask , coil some spare line in the boat ' s bow , `` did you never hear that the ship which but onc ha a sperm whale ' s head hoist on her starboard side , and at the same time a right whale ' s on the larboard ; did you never hear , stubb , that that ship can never afterward capsiz ? '' `` whi not ? `` I don ' t know , but I heard that gambog ghost of a fedallah say so , and he seem to know all about ship ' charm . but I sometim think he ' ll charm the ship to no good at last . I don ' t half like that chap , stubb . did you ever notic how that tusk of hi is a sort of carv into a snake ' s head , stubb ? '' `` sink him ! I never look at him at all ; but if ever I get a chanc of a dark night , and he stand hard by the bulwark , and no one by ; look down there , flask `` -- point into the sea with a peculiar motion of both hand -- '' aye , will I ! flask , I take that fedallah to be the devil in disguis . Do you believ that cock and bull stori about hi have been stow away on board ship ? He ' s the devil , I say . the reason whi you don ' t see hi tail , is becaus he tuck it up out of sight ; he carri it coil away in hi pocket , I guess . blast him ! now that I think of it , he ' s alway want oakum to stuff into the toe of hi boot . '' `` He sleep in hi boot , don ' t he ? He hasn ' t got ani hammock ; but I ' ve seen him lay of night in a coil of rig . '' `` No doubt , and it ' s becaus of hi curs tail ; he coil it down , do ye see , in the eye of the rig . '' `` what ' s the old man have so much to do with him for ? '' `` strike up a swap or a bargain , I suppos . '' `` bargain ? -- about what ? '' `` whi , do ye see , the old man is hard bent after that white whale , and the devil there is tri to come round him , and get him to swap away hi silver watch , or hi soul , or someth of that sort , and then he ' ll surrend mobi dick . '' `` pooh ! stubb , you are skylark ; how can fedallah do that ? '' `` I don ' t know , flask , but the devil is a curiou chap , and a wick one , I tell ye . whi , they say as how he went a saunter into the old flag - ship onc , switch hi tail about devilish easi and gentlemanlik , and inquir if the old governor wa at home . well , he wa at home , and ask the devil what he want . the devil , switch hi hoof , up and say , ' I want john . ' ' what for ? ' say the old governor . ' what busi is that of your , ' say the devil , get mad , -- ' I want to use him . ' ' take him , ' say the governor -- and by the lord , flask , if the devil didn ' t give john the asiat cholera befor he got through with him , I ' ll eat thi whale in one mouth . but look sharp -- ain ' t you all readi there ? well , then , pull ahead , and let ' s get the whale alongsid . '' `` I think I rememb some such stori as you were tell , '' said flask , when at last the two boat were slowli advanc with their burden toward the ship , `` but I can ' t rememb where . '' `` three spaniard ? adventur of those three bloodi - mind solado ? did ye read it there , flask ? I guess ye did ? '' `` No : never saw such a book ; heard of it , though . but now , tell me , stubb , do you suppos that that devil you wa speak of just now , wa the same you say is now on board the pequod ? '' `` Am I the same man that help kill thi whale ? doesn ' t the devil live for ever ; who ever heard that the devil wa dead ? did you ever see ani parson a wear mourn for the devil ? and if the devil ha a latch - key to get into the admir ' s cabin , don ' t you suppos he can crawl into a porthol ? tell me that , Mr . flask ? '' `` how old do you suppos fedallah is , stubb ? '' `` Do you see that mainmast there ? '' point to the ship ; `` well , that ' s the figur one ; now take all the hoop in the pequod ' s hold , and string along in a row with that mast , for ought , do you see ; well , that wouldn ' t begin to be fedallah ' s age . nor all the cooper in creation couldn ' t show hoop enough to make ought enough . '' `` but see here , stubb , I thought you a littl boast just now , that you meant to give fedallah a sea - toss , if you got a good chanc . now , if he ' s so old as all those hoop of your come to , and if he is go to live for ever , what good will it do to pitch him overboard -- tell me that ? `` give him a good duck , anyhow . '' `` but he ' d crawl back . '' `` duck him again ; and keep duck him . '' `` suppos he should take it into hi head to duck you , though -- ye , and drown you -- what then ? '' `` I should like to see him tri it ; I ' d give him such a pair of black eye that he wouldn ' t dare to show hi face in the admir ' s cabin again for a long while , let alon down in the orlop there , where he live , and hereabout on the upper deck where he sneak so much . damn the devil , flask ; so you suppos I ' m afraid of the devil ? who ' s afraid of him , except the old governor who daresn ' t catch him and put him in doubl - darbi , as he deserv , but let him go about kidnap peopl ; aye , and sign a bond with him , that all the peopl the devil kidnap , he ' d roast for him ? there ' s a governor ! '' `` Do you suppos fedallah want to kidnap captain ahab ? '' `` Do I suppos it ? you ' ll know it befor long , flask . but I am go now to keep a sharp look - out on him ; and if I see anyth veri suspici go on , I ' ll just take him by the nape of hi neck , and say -- look here , beelzebub , you don ' t do it ; and if he make ani fuss , by the lord I ' ll make a grab into hi pocket for hi tail , take it to the capstan , and give him such a wrench and heav , that hi tail will come short off at the stump -- do you see ; and then , I rather guess when he find himself dock in that queer fashion , he ' ll sneak off without the poor satisfact of feel hi tail between hi leg . '' `` and what will you do with the tail , stubb ? '' `` Do with it ? sell it for an ox whip when we get home ; -- what els ? '' `` now , do you mean what you say , and have been say all along , stubb ? '' `` mean or not mean , here we are at the ship . '' the boat were here hail , to tow the whale on the larboard side , where fluke chain and other necessari were alreadi prepar for secur him . `` didn ' t I tell you so ? '' said flask ; `` ye , you ' ll soon see thi right whale ' s head hoist up opposit that parmacetti ' s . '' In good time , flask ' s say prove true . As befor , the pequod steepli lean over toward the sperm whale ' s head , now , by the counterpois of both head , she regain her even keel ; though sore strain , you may well believ . So , when on one side you hoist in lock ' s head , you go over that way ; but now , on the other side , hoist in kant ' s and you come back again ; but in veri poor plight . thu , some mind for ever keep trim boat . Oh , ye foolish ! throw all these thunder - head overboard , and then you will float light and right . In dispos of the bodi of a right whale , when brought alongsid the ship , the same preliminari proceed commonli take place as in the case of a sperm whale ; onli , in the latter instanc , the head is cut off whole , but in the former the lip and tongu are separ remov and hoist on deck , with all the well known black bone attach to what is call the crown - piec . but noth like thi , in the present case , had been done . the carcas of both whale had drop astern ; and the head - laden ship not a littl resembl a mule carri a pair of overburden pannier . meantim , fedallah wa calmli eye the right whale ' s head , and ever and anon glanc from the deep wrinkl there to the line in hi own hand . and ahab chanc so to stand , that the parse occupi hi shadow ; while , if the parse ' s shadow wa there at all it seem onli to blend with , and lengthen ahab ' s . As the crew toil on , laplandish specul were bandi among them , concern all these pass thing . chapter 74 the sperm whale ' s head -- contrast view . here , now , are two great whale , lay their head togeth ; let us join them , and lay togeth our own . Of the grand order of folio leviathan , the sperm whale and the right whale are by far the most noteworthi . they are the onli whale regularli hunt by man . To the nantucket , they present the two extrem of all the known varieti of the whale . As the extern differ between them is mainli observ in their head ; and as a head of each is thi moment hang from the pequod ' s side ; and as we may freeli go from one to the other , by mere step across the deck : -- where , I should like to know , will you obtain a better chanc to studi practic cetolog than here ? In the first place , you are struck by the gener contrast between these head . both are massiv enough in all conscienc ; but there is a certain mathemat symmetri in the sperm whale ' s which the right whale ' s sadli lack . there is more charact in the sperm whale ' s head . As you behold it , you involuntarili yield the immens superior to him , in point of pervad digniti . In the present instanc , too , thi digniti is heighten by the pepper and salt colour of hi head at the summit , give token of advanc age and larg experi . In short , he is what the fishermen technic call a `` grey - head whale . '' let us now note what is least dissimilar in these head -- name , the two most import organ , the eye and the ear . far back on the side of the head , and low down , near the angl of either whale ' s jaw , if you narrowli search , you will at last see a lashless eye , which you would fanci to be a young colt ' s eye ; so out of all proport is it to the magnitud of the head . now , from thi peculiar sideway posit of the whale ' s eye , it is plain that he can never see an object which is exactli ahead , no more than he can one exactli astern . In a word , the posit of the whale ' s eye correspond to that of a man ' s ear ; and you may fanci , for yourself , how it would fare with you , did you sideway survey object through your ear . you would find that you could onli command some thirti degre of vision in advanc of the straight side - line of sight ; and about thirti more behind it . If your bitterest foe were walk straight toward you , with dagger uplift in broad day , you would not be abl to see him , ani more than if he were steal upon you from behind . In a word , you would have two back , so to speak ; but , at the same time , also , two front ( side front ) : for what is it that make the front of a man -- what , inde , but hi eye ? moreov , while in most other anim that I can now think of , the eye are so plant as impercept to blend their visual power , so as to produc one pictur and not two to the brain ; the peculiar posit of the whale ' s eye , effectu divid as they are by mani cubic feet of solid head , which tower between them like a great mountain separ two lake in valley ; thi , of cours , must wholli separ the impress which each independ organ impart . the whale , therefor , must see one distinct pictur on thi side , and anoth distinct pictur on that side ; while all between must be profound dark and nothing to him . man may , in effect , be said to look out on the world from a sentri - box with two join sash for hi window . but with the whale , these two sash are separ insert , make two distinct window , but sadli impair the view . thi peculiar of the whale ' s eye is a thing alway to be born in mind in the fisheri ; and to be rememb by the reader in some subsequ scene . A curiou and most puzzl question might be start concern thi visual matter as touch the leviathan . but I must be content with a hint . So long as a man ' s eye are open in the light , the act of see is involuntari ; that is , he can not then help mechan see whatev object are befor him . nevertheless , ani one ' s experi will teach him , that though he can take in an undiscrimin sweep of thing at one glanc , it is quit imposs for him , attent , and complet , to examin ani two thing -- howev larg or howev small -- at one and the same instant of time ; never mind if they lie side by side and touch each other . but if you now come to separ these two object , and surround each by a circl of profound dark ; then , in order to see one of them , in such a manner as to bring your mind to bear on it , the other will be utterli exclud from your contemporari conscious . how is it , then , with the whale ? true , both hi eye , in themselv , must simultan act ; but is hi brain so much more comprehens , combin , and subtl than man ' s , that he can at the same moment of time attent examin two distinct prospect , one on one side of him , and the other in an exactli opposit direct ? If he can , then is it as marvel a thing in him , as if a man were abl simultan to go through the demonstr of two distinct problem in euclid . nor , strictli investig , is there ani incongru in thi comparison . It may be but an idl whim , but it ha alway seem to me , that the extraordinari vacil of movement display by some whale when beset by three or four boat ; the timid and liabil to queer fright , so common to such whale ; I think that all thi indirectli proce from the helpless perplex of volit , in which their divid and diametr opposit power of vision must involv them . but the ear of the whale is full as curiou as the eye . If you are an entir stranger to their race , you might hunt over these two head for hour , and never discov that organ . the ear ha no extern leaf whatev ; and into the hole itself you can hardli insert a quill , so wondrous minut is it . It is lodg a littl behind the eye . with respect to their ear , thi import differ is to be observ between the sperm whale and the right . while the ear of the former ha an extern open , that of the latter is entir and evenli cover over with a membran , so as to be quit impercept from without . Is it not curiou , that so vast a be as the whale should see the world through so small an eye , and hear the thunder through an ear which is smaller than a hare ' s ? but if hi eye were broad as the len of herschel ' s great telescop ; and hi ear capaci as the porch of cathedr ; would that make him ani longer of sight , or sharper of hear ? not at all . -- whi then do you tri to `` enlarg `` your mind ? subtil it . let us now with whatev lever and steam - engin we have at hand , cant over the sperm whale ' s head , that it may lie bottom up ; then , ascend by a ladder to the summit , have a peep down the mouth ; and were it not that the bodi is now complet separ from it , with a lantern we might descend into the great kentucki mammoth cave of hi stomach . but let us hold on here by thi tooth , and look about us where we are . what a realli beauti and chast - look mouth ! from floor to ceil , line , or rather paper with a glisten white membran , glossi as bridal satin . but come out now , and look at thi portent lower jaw , which seem like the long narrow lid of an immens snuff - box , with the hing at one end , instead of one side . If you pri it up , so as to get it overhead , and expos it row of teeth , it seem a terrif portculli ; and such , ala ! it prove to mani a poor wight in the fisheri , upon whom these spike fall with impal forc . but far more terribl is it to behold , when fathom down in the sea , you see some sulki whale , float there suspend , with hi prodigi jaw , some fifteen feet long , hang straight down at right - angl with hi bodi , for all the world like a ship ' s jib - boom . thi whale is not dead ; he is onli dispirit ; out of sort , perhap ; hypochondriac ; and so supin , that the hing of hi jaw have relax , leav him there in that ungainli sort of plight , a reproach to all hi tribe , who must , no doubt , imprec lock - jaw upon him . In most case thi lower jaw -- be easili unhing by a practis artist -- is disengag and hoist on deck for the purpos of extract the ivori teeth , and furnish a suppli of that hard white whalebon with which the fishermen fashion all sort of curiou articl , includ cane , umbrella - stock , and handl to ride - whip . with a long , weari hoist the jaw is drag on board , as if it were an anchor ; and when the proper time come -- some few day after the other work -- queequeg , daggoo , and tashtego , be all accomplish dentist , are set to draw teeth . with a keen cut - spade , queequeg lanc the gum ; then the jaw is lash down to ringbolt , and a tackl be rig from aloft , they drag out these teeth , as michigan oxen drag stump of old oak out of wild wood land . there are gener forti - two teeth in all ; in old whale , much worn down , but undecay ; nor fill after our artifici fashion . the jaw is afterward sawn into slab , and pile away like joist for build hous . chapter 75 the right whale ' s head -- contrast view . cross the deck , let us now have a good long look at the right whale ' s head . As in gener shape the nobl sperm whale ' s head may be compar to a roman war - chariot ( especi in front , where it is so broadli round ) ; so , at a broad view , the right whale ' s head bear a rather ineleg resembl to a gigant galliot - to shoe . two hundr year ago an old dutch voyag liken it shape to that of a shoemak ' s last . and in thi same last or shoe , that old woman of the nurseri tale , with the swarm brood , might veri comfort be lodg , she and all her progeni . but as you come nearer to thi great head it begin to assum differ aspect , accord to your point of view . If you stand on it summit and look at these two F - shape spouthol , you would take the whole head for an enorm bass - viol , and these spiracl , the apertur in it sound - board . then , again , if you fix your eye upon thi strang , crest , comb - like incrust on the top of the mass -- thi green , barnacl thing , which the greenland call the `` crown , '' and the southern fisher the `` bonnet `` of the right whale ; fix your eye sole on thi , you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak , with a bird ' s nest in it crotch . At ani rate , when you watch those live crab that nestl here on thi bonnet , such an idea will be almost sure to occur to you ; unless , inde , your fanci ha been fix by the technic term `` crown `` also bestow upon it ; in which case you will take great interest in think how thi mighti monster is actual a diadem king of the sea , whose green crown ha been put togeth for him in thi marvel manner . but if thi whale be a king , he is a veri sulki look fellow to grace a diadem . look at that hang lower lip ! what a huge sulk and pout is there ! a sulk and pout , by carpent ' s measur , about twenti feet long and five feet deep ; a sulk and pout that will yield you some 500 gallon of oil and more . A great piti , now , that thi unfortun whale should be hare - lip . the fissur is about a foot across . probabl the mother dure an import interv wa sail down the peruvian coast , when earthquak caus the beach to gape . over thi lip , as over a slipperi threshold , we now slide into the mouth . upon my word were I at mackinaw , I should take thi to be the insid of an indian wigwam . good lord ! is thi the road that jonah went ? the roof is about twelv feet high , and run to a pretti sharp angl , as if there were a regular ridg - pole there ; while these rib , arch , hairi side , present us with those wondrou , half vertic , scimetar - shape slat of whalebon , say three hundr on a side , which depend from the upper part of the head or crown bone , form those venetian blind which have elsewher been cursorili mention . the edg of these bone are fring with hairi fibr , through which the right whale strain the water , and in whose intricaci he retain the small fish , when openmouth he goe through the sea of brit in feed time . In the central blind of bone , as they stand in their natur order , there are certain curiou mark , curv , hollow , and ridg , wherebi some whalemen calcul the creatur ' s age , as the age of an oak by it circular ring . though the certainti of thi criterion is far from demonstr , yet it ha the savor of analog probabl . At ani rate , if we yield to it , we must grant a far greater age to the right whale than at first glanc will seem reason . In old time , there seem to have prevail the most curiou fanci concern these blind . one voyag in purcha call them the wondrou `` whisker `` insid of the whale ' s mouth ; * anoth , `` hog ' bristl `` ; a third old gentleman in hackluyt use the follow eleg languag : `` there are about two hundr and fifti fin grow on each side of hi upper chop , which arch over hi tongu on each side of hi mouth . '' * thi remind us that the right whale realli ha a sort of whisker , or rather a moustach , consist of a few scatter white hair on the upper part of the outer end of the lower jaw . sometim these tuft impart a rather brigandish express to hi otherwis solemn counten . As everi one know , these same `` hog ' bristl , '' `` fin , '' `` whisker , '' `` blind , '' or whatev you pleas , furnish to the ladi their busk and other stiffen contriv . but in thi particular , the demand ha long been on the declin . It wa in queen ann ' s time that the bone wa in it glori , the farthingal be then all the fashion . and as those ancient dame move about gaili , though in the jaw of the whale , as you may say ; even so , in a shower , with the like thoughtless , do we nowaday fli under the same jaw for protect ; the umbrella be a tent spread over the same bone . but now forget all about blind and whisker for a moment , and , stand in the right whale ' s mouth , look around you afresh . see all these colonnad of bone so method rang about , would you not think you were insid of the great haarlem organ , and gaze upon it thousand pipe ? for a carpet to the organ we have a rug of the softest turkey -- the tongu , which is glu , as it were , to the floor of the mouth . It is veri fat and tender , and apt to tear in piec in hoist it on deck . thi particular tongu now befor us ; at a pass glanc I should say it wa a six - barrel ; that is , it will yield you about that amount of oil . ere thi , you must have plainli seen the truth of what I start with -- that the sperm whale and the right whale have almost entir differ head . To sum up , then : in the right whale ' s there is no great well of sperm ; no ivori teeth at all ; no long , slender mandibl of a lower jaw , like the sperm whale ' s . nor in the sperm whale are there ani of those blind of bone ; no huge lower lip ; and scarc anyth of a tongu . again , the right whale ha two extern spout - hole , the sperm whale onli one . look your last , now , on these vener hood head , while they yet lie togeth ; for one will soon sink , unrecord , in the sea ; the other will not be veri long in follow . can you catch the express of the sperm whale ' s there ? It is the same he die with , onli some of the longer wrinkl in the forehead seem now fade away . I think hi broad brow to be full of a prairi - like placid , born of a specul indiffer as to death . but mark the other head ' s express . see that amaz lower lip , press by accid against the vessel ' s side , so as firmli to embrac the jaw . doe not thi whole head seem to speak of an enorm practic resolut in face death ? thi right whale I take to have been a stoic ; the sperm whale , a platonian , who might have taken up spinoza in hi latter year . chapter 76 the batter - ram . ere quit , for the nonc , the sperm whale ' s head , I would have you , as a sensibl physiologist , simpli -- particularli remark it front aspect , in all it compact collected . I would have you investig it now with the sole view of form to yourself some unexagger , intellig estim of whatev batter - ram power may be lodg there . here is a vital point ; for you must either satisfactorili settl thi matter with yourself , or for ever remain an infidel as to one of the most appal , but not the less true event , perhap anywher to be found in all record histori . you observ that in the ordinari swim posit of the sperm whale , the front of hi head present an almost wholli vertic plane to the water ; you observ that the lower part of that front slope consider backward , so as to furnish more of a retreat for the long socket which receiv the boom - like lower jaw ; you observ that the mouth is entir under the head , much in the same way , inde , as though your own mouth were entir under your chin . moreov you observ that the whale ha no extern nose ; and that what nose he ha -- hi spout hole -- is on the top of hi head ; you observ that hi eye and ear are at the side of hi head , nearli one third of hi entir length from the front . wherefor , you must now have perceiv that the front of the sperm whale ' s head is a dead , blind wall , without a singl organ or tender promin of ani sort whatsoev . furthermor , you are now to consid that onli in the extrem , lower , backward slope part of the front of the head , is there the slightest vestig of bone ; and not till you get near twenti feet from the forehead do you come to the full cranial develop . So that thi whole enorm boneless mass is as one wad . final , though , as will soon be reveal , it content partli compris the most delic oil ; yet , you are now to be appris of the natur of the substanc which so impregn invest all that appar effeminaci . In some previou place I have describ to you how the blubber wrap the bodi of the whale , as the rind wrap an orang . just so with the head ; but with thi differ : about the head thi envelop , though not so thick , is of a boneless tough , inestim by ani man who ha not handl it . the severest point harpoon , the sharpest lanc dart by the strongest human arm , impot rebound from it . It is as though the forehead of the sperm whale were pave with hors ' hoof . I do not think that ani sensat lurk in it . bethink yourself also of anoth thing . when two larg , load indiamen chanc to crowd and crush toward each other in the dock , what do the sailor do ? they do not suspend between them , at the point of come contact , ani mere hard substanc , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a larg , round wad of tow and cork , envelop in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . that brave and uninjur take the jam which would have snap all their oaken handspik and iron crow - bar . By itself thi suffici illustr the obviou fact I drive at . but supplementari to thi , it ha hypothet occur to me , that as ordinari fish possess what is call a swim bladder in them , capabl , at will , of distens or contract ; and as the sperm whale , as far as I know , ha no such provis in him ; consid , too , the otherwis inexplic manner in which he now depress hi head altogeth beneath the surfac , and anon swim with it high elev out of the water ; consid the unobstruct elast of it envelop ; consid the uniqu interior of hi head ; it ha hypothet occur to me , I say , that those mystic lung - cell honeycomb there may possibl have some hitherto unknown and unsuspect connexion with the outer air , so as to be suscept to atmospher distens and contract . If thi be so , fanci the irresist of that might , to which the most impalp and destruct of all element contribut . now , mark . unerringli impel thi dead , impregn , uninjur wall , and thi most buoyant thing within ; there swim behind it all a mass of tremend life , onli to be adequ estim as pile wood is -- by the cord ; and all obedi to one volit , as the smallest insect . So that when I shall hereaft detail to you all the special and concentr of potenc everywher lurk in thi expans monster ; when I shall show you some of hi more inconsider brain feat ; I trust you will have renounc all ignor incredul , and be readi to abid by thi ; that though the sperm whale stove a passag through the isthmu of darien , and mix the atlant with the pacif , you would not elev one hair of your eye - brow . for unless you own the whale , you are but a provinci and sentimentalist in truth . but clear truth is a thing for salamand giant onli to encount ; how small the chanc for the provinci then ? what befel the weakl youth lift the dread goddess ' s veil at lai ? chapter 77 the great heidelburgh tun . now come the bale of the case . but to comprehend it aright , you must know someth of the curiou intern structur of the thing oper upon . regard the sperm whale ' s head as a solid oblong , you may , on an inclin plane , sideway divid it into two quoin , * whereof the lower is the boni structur , form the cranium and jaw , and the upper an unctuou mass wholli free from bone ; it broad forward end form the expand vertic appar forehead of the whale . At the middl of the forehead horizont subdivid thi upper quoin , and then you have two almost equal part , which befor were natur divid by an intern wall of a thick tendin substanc . * quoin is not a euclidean term . It belong to the pure nautic mathemat . I know not that it ha been defin befor . A quoin is a solid which differ from a wedg in have it sharp end form by the steep inclin of one side , instead of the mutual taper of both side . the lower subdivid part , call the junk , is one immens honeycomb of oil , form by the cross and recross , into ten thousand infiltr cell , of tough elast white fibr throughout it whole extent . the upper part , known as the case , may be regard as the great heidelburgh tun of the sperm whale . and as that famou great tierc is mystic carv in front , so the whale ' s vast plait forehead form innumer strang devic for the emblemat adorn of hi wondrou tun . moreov , as that of heidelburgh wa alway replenish with the most excel of the wine of the rhenish valley , so the tun of the whale contain by far the most preciou of all hi oili vintag ; name , the highli - prize spermaceti , in it absolut pure , limpid , and odorifer state . nor is thi preciou substanc found unalloy in ani other part of the creatur . though in life it remain perfectli fluid , yet , upon exposur to the air , after death , it soon begin to concret ; send forth beauti crystallin shoot , as when the first thin delic ice is just form in water . A larg whale ' s case gener yield about five hundr gallon of sperm , though from unavoid circumst , consider of it is spill , leak , and dribbl away , or is otherwis irrevoc lost in the ticklish busi of secur what you can . I know not with what fine and costli materi the heidelburgh tun wa coat within , but in superl rich that coat could not possibl have compar with the silken pearl - colour membran , like the line of a fine peliss , form the inner surfac of the sperm whale ' s case . It will have been seen that the heidelburgh tun of the sperm whale embrac the entir length of the entir top of the head ; and sinc -- as ha been elsewher set forth -- the head embrac one third of the whole length of the creatur , then set that length down at eighti feet for a good size whale , you have more than twenti - six feet for the depth of the tun , when it is lengthwis hoist up and down against a ship ' s side . As in decapit the whale , the oper ' s instrument is brought close to the spot where an entranc is subsequ forc into the spermaceti magazin ; he ha , therefor , to be uncommonli heed , lest a careless , untim stroke should invad the sanctuari and wastingli let out it invalu content . It is thi decapit end of the head , also , which is at last elev out of the water , and retain in that posit by the enorm cut tackl , whose hempen combin , on one side , make quit a wilder of rope in that quarter . thu much be said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvel and -- in thi particular instanc -- almost fatal oper wherebi the sperm whale ' s great heidelburgh tun is tap . chapter 78 cistern and bucket . nimbl as a cat , tashtego mount aloft ; and without alter hi erect postur , run straight out upon the overhang mainyard - arm , to the part where it exactli project over the hoist tun . He ha carri with him a light tackl call a whip , consist of onli two part , travel through a singl - sheav block . secur thi block , so that it hang down from the yard - arm , he swing one end of the rope , till it is caught and firmli held by a hand on deck . then , hand - over - hand , down the other part , the indian drop through the air , till dexter he land on the summit of the head . there -- still high elev abov the rest of the compani , to whom he vivaci cri -- he seem some turkish muezzin call the good peopl to prayer from the top of a tower . A short - handl sharp spade be sent up to him , he dilig search for the proper place to begin break into the tun . In thi busi he proce veri heed , like a treasur - hunter in some old hous , sound the wall to find where the gold is mason in . By the time thi cautiou search is over , a stout iron - bound bucket , precis like a well - bucket , ha been attach to one end of the whip ; while the other end , be stretch across the deck , is there held by two or three alert hand . these last now hoist the bucket within grasp of the indian , to whom anoth person ha reach up a veri long pole . insert thi pole into the bucket , tashtego downward guid the bucket into the tun , till it entir disappear ; then give the word to the seamen at the whip , up come the bucket again , all bubbl like a dairi - maid ' s pail of new milk . care lower from it height , the full - freight vessel is caught by an appoint hand , and quickli empti into a larg tub . then remount aloft , it again goe through the same round until the deep cistern will yield no more . toward the end , tashtego ha to ram hi long pole harder and harder , and deeper and deeper into the tun , until some twenti feet of the pole have gone down . now , the peopl of the pequod had been bale some time in thi way ; sever tub had been fill with the fragrant sperm ; when all at onc a queer accid happen . whether it wa that tashtego , that wild indian , wa so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment hi one - hand hold on the great cabl tackl suspend the head ; or whether the place where he stood wa so treacher and oozi ; or whether the evil one himself would have it to fall out so , without state hi particular reason ; how it wa exactli , there is no tell now ; but , on a sudden , as the eightieth or ninetieth bucket came suckingli up -- my god ! poor tashtego -- like the twin reciproc bucket in a verit well , drop head - foremost down into thi great tun of heidelburgh , and with a horribl oili gurgl , went clean out of sight ! `` man overboard ! '' cri daggoo , who amid the gener constern first came to hi sens . `` swing the bucket thi way ! '' and put one foot into it , so as the better to secur hi slipperi hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoister ran him high up to the top of the head , almost befor tashtego could have reach it interior bottom . meantim , there wa a terribl tumult . look over the side , they saw the befor lifeless head throb and heav just below the surfac of the sea , as if that moment seiz with some moment idea ; wherea it wa onli the poor indian unconsci reveal by those struggl the peril depth to which he had sunk . At thi instant , while daggoo , on the summit of the head , wa clear the whip -- which had somehow got foul of the great cut tackl -- a sharp crack nois wa heard ; and to the unspeak horror of all , one of the two enorm hook suspend the head tore out , and with a vast vibrat the enorm mass sideway swung , till the drunk ship reel and shook as if smitten by an iceberg . the one remain hook , upon which the entir strain now depend , seem everi instant to be on the point of give way ; an event still more like from the violent motion of the head . `` come down , come down ! '' yell the seamen to daggoo , but with one hand hold on to the heavi tackl , so that if the head should drop , he would still remain suspend ; the negro have clear the foul line , ram down the bucket into the now collaps well , mean that the buri harpoon should grasp it , and so be hoist out . `` In heaven ' s name , man , '' cri stubb , `` are you ram home a cartridg there ? -- avast ! how will that help him ; jam that iron - bound bucket on top of hi head ? avast , will ye ! '' `` stand clear of the tackl ! '' cri a voic like the burst of a rocket . almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enorm mass drop into the sea , like niagara ' s tabl - rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenli reliev hull roll away from it , to far down her glitter copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swing -- now over the sailor ' head , and now over the water -- daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , wa dimli beheld cling to the pendul tackl , while poor , buri - aliv tashtego wa sink utterli down to the bottom of the sea ! but hardli had the blind vapour clear away , when a nake figur with a board - sword in hi hand , wa for one swift moment seen hover over the bulwark . the next , a loud splash announc that my brave queequeg had dive to the rescu . one pack rush wa made to the side , and everi eye count everi rippl , as moment follow moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . some hand now jump into a boat alongsid , and push a littl off from the ship . `` Ha ! ha ! '' cri daggoo , all at onc , from hi now quiet , swing perch overhead ; and look further off from the side , we saw an arm thrust upright from the blue wave ; a sight strang to see , as an arm thrust forth from the grass over a grave . `` both ! both ! -- it is both ! '' -- cri daggoo again with a joy shout ; and soon after , queequeg wa seen boldli strike out with one hand , and with the other clutch the long hair of the indian . drawn into the wait boat , they were quickli brought to the deck ; but tashtego wa long in come to , and queequeg did not look veri brisk . now , how had thi nobl rescu been accomplish ? whi , dive after the slowli descend head , queequeg with hi keen sword had made side lung near it bottom , so as to scuttl a larg hole there ; then drop hi sword , had thrust hi long arm far inward and upward , and so haul out poor tash by the head . He aver , that upon first thrust in for him , a leg wa present ; but well know that that wa not as it ought to be , and might occas great troubl ; -- he had thrust back the leg , and by a dexter heav and toss , had wrought a somerset upon the indian ; so that with the next trial , he came forth in the good old way -- head foremost . As for the great head itself , that wa do as well as could be expect . and thu , through the courag and great skill in obstetr of queequeg , the deliver , or rather , deliveri of tashtego , wa success accomplish , in the teeth , too , of the most untoward and appar hopeless impedi ; which is a lesson by no mean to be forgotten . midwiferi should be taught in the same cours with fenc and box , ride and row . I know that thi queer adventur of the gay - header ' s will be sure to seem incred to some landsmen , though they themselv may have either seen or heard of some one ' s fall into a cistern ashor ; an accid which not seldom happen , and with much less reason too than the indian ' s , consid the exceed slipperi of the curb of the sperm whale ' s well . but , peradventur , it may be sagaci urg , how is thi ? We thought the tissu , infiltr head of the sperm whale , wa the lightest and most corki part about him ; and yet thou makest it sink in an element of a far greater specif graviti than itself . We have thee there . not at all , but I have ye ; for at the time poor tash fell in , the case had been nearli empti of it lighter content , leav littl but the dens tendin wall of the well -- a doubl weld , hammer substanc , as I have befor said , much heavier than the sea water , and a lump of which sink in it like lead almost . but the tendenc to rapid sink in thi substanc wa in the present instanc materi counteract by the other part of the head remain undetach from it , so that it sank veri slowli and deliber inde , afford queequeg a fair chanc for perform hi agil obstetr on the run , as you may say . ye , it wa a run deliveri , so it wa . now , had tashtego perish in that head , it had been a veri preciou perish ; smother in the veri whitest and daintiest of fragrant spermaceti ; coffin , hears , and tomb in the secret inner chamber and sanctum sanctorum of the whale . onli one sweeter end can readili be recal -- the delici death of an ohio honey - hunter , who seek honey in the crotch of a hollow tree , found such exceed store of it , that lean too far over , it suck him in , so that he die embalm . how mani , think ye , have likewis fallen into plato ' s honey head , and sweetli perish there ? chapter 79 the prairi . To scan the line of hi face , or feel the bump on the head of thi leviathan ; thi is a thing which no physiognomist or phrenologist ha as yet undertaken . such an enterpris would seem almost as hope as for lavat to have scrutin the wrinkl on the rock of gibraltar , or for gall to have mount a ladder and manipul the dome of the pantheon . still , in that famou work of hi , lavat not onli treat of the variou face of men , but also attent studi the face of hors , bird , serpent , and fish ; and dwell in detail upon the modif of express discern therein . nor have gall and hi discipl spurzheim fail to throw out some hint touch the phrenolog characterist of other be than man . therefor , though I am but ill qualifi for a pioneer , in the applic of these two semi - scienc to the whale , I will do my endeavor . I tri all thing ; I achiev what I can . physiognom regard , the sperm whale is an anomal creatur . He ha no proper nose . and sinc the nose is the central and most conspicu of the featur ; and sinc it perhap most modifi and final control their combin express ; henc it would seem that it entir absenc , as an extern appendag , must veri larg affect the counten of the whale . for as in landscap garden , a spire , cupola , monument , or tower of some sort , is deem almost indispens to the complet of the scene ; so no face can be physiognom in keep without the elev open - work belfri of the nose . dash the nose from phidia ' s marbl jove , and what a sorri remaind ! nevertheless , leviathan is of so mighti a magnitud , all hi proport are so state , that the same defici which in the sculptur jove were hideou , in him is no blemish at all . nay , it is an ad grandeur . A nose to the whale would have been impertin . As on your physiognom voyag you sail round hi vast head in your jolli - boat , your nobl concept of him are never insult by the reflect that he ha a nose to be pull . A pestil conceit , which so often will insist upon obtrud even when behold the mightiest royal beadl on hi throne . In some particular , perhap the most impos physiognom view to be had of the sperm whale , is that of the full front of hi head . thi aspect is sublim . In thought , a fine human brow is like the east when troubl with the morn . In the repos of the pastur , the curl brow of the bull ha a touch of the grand in it . push heavi cannon up mountain defil , the eleph ' s brow is majest . human or anim , the mystic brow is as that great golden seal affix by the german emperor to their decre . It signifi -- '' god : done thi day by my hand . '' but in most creatur , nay in man himself , veri often the brow is but a mere strip of alpin land lie along the snow line . few are the forehead which like shakespear ' s or melancthon ' s rise so high , and descend so low , that the eye themselv seem clear , etern , tideless mountain lake ; and all abov them in the forehead ' s wrinkl , you seem to track the antler thought descend there to drink , as the highland hunter track the snow print of the deer . but in the great sperm whale , thi high and mighti god - like digniti inher in the brow is so immens amplifi , that gaze on it , in that full front view , you feel the deiti and the dread power more forcibl than in behold ani other object in live natur . for you see no one point precis ; not one distinct featur is reveal ; no nose , eye , ear , or mouth ; no face ; he ha none , proper ; noth but that one broad firmament of a forehead , pleat with riddl ; dumbl lower with the doom of boat , and ship , and men . nor , in profil , doe thi wondrou brow diminish ; though that way view it grandeur doe not domin upon you so . In profil , you plainli perceiv that horizont , semi - crescent depress in the forehead ' s middl , which , in man , is lavat ' s mark of geniu . but how ? geniu in the sperm whale ? ha the sperm whale ever written a book , spoken a speech ? No , hi great geniu is declar in hi do noth particular to prove it . It is moreov declar in hi pyramid silenc . and thi remind me that had the great sperm whale been known to the young orient world , he would have been deifi by their child - magian thought . they deifi the crocodil of the nile , becaus the crocodil is tongueless ; and the sperm whale ha no tongu , or at least it is so exceedingli small , as to be incap of protrus . If hereaft ani highli cultur , poetic nation shall lure back to their birth - right , the merri may - day god of old ; and livingli enthron them again in the now egotist sky ; in the now unhaunt hill ; then be sure , exalt to jove ' s high seat , the great sperm whale shall lord it . champollion deciph the wrinkl granit hieroglyph . but there is no champollion to deciph the egypt of everi man ' s and everi be ' s face . physiognomi , like everi other human scienc , is but a pass fabl . If then , sir william jone , who read in thirti languag , could not read the simplest peasant ' s face in it profound and more subtl mean , how may unlett ishmael hope to read the aw chalde of the sperm whale ' s brow ? I but put that brow befor you . read it if you can . chapter 80 the nut . If the sperm whale be physiognom a sphinx , to the phrenologist hi brain seem that geometr circl which it is imposs to squar . In the full - grown creatur the skull will measur at least twenti feet in length . unhing the lower jaw , and the side view of thi skull is as the side of a moder inclin plane rest throughout on a level base . but in life -- as we have elsewher seen -- thi inclin plane is angularli fill up , and almost squar by the enorm superincumb mass of the junk and sperm . At the high end the skull form a crater to bed that part of the mass ; while under the long floor of thi crater -- in anoth caviti seldom exceed ten inch in length and as mani in depth -- repos the mere hand of thi monster ' s brain . the brain is at least twenti feet from hi appar forehead in life ; it is hidden away behind it vast outwork , like the innermost citadel within the amplifi fortif of quebec . So like a choic casket is it secret in him , that I have known some whalemen who peremptorili deni that the sperm whale ha ani other brain than that palpabl semblanc of one form by the cubic - yard of hi sperm magazin . ly in strang fold , cours , and convolut , to their apprehens , it seem more in keep with the idea of hi gener might to regard that mystic part of him as the seat of hi intellig . It is plain , then , that phrenolog the head of thi leviathan , in the creatur ' s live intact state , is an entir delus . As for hi true brain , you can then see no indic of it , nor feel ani . the whale , like all thing that are mighti , wear a fals brow to the common world . If you unload hi skull of it spermi heap and then take a rear view of it rear end , which is the high end , you will be struck by it resembl to the human skull , beheld in the same situat , and from the same point of view . inde , place thi revers skull ( scale down to the human magnitud ) among a plate of men ' s skull , and you would involuntarili confound it with them ; and remark the depress on one part of it summit , in phrenolog phrase you would say -- thi man had no self - esteem , and no vener . and by those negat , consid along with the affirm fact of hi prodigi bulk and power , you can best form to yourself the truest , though not the most exhilar concept of what the most exalt potenc is . but if from the compar dimens of the whale ' s proper brain , you deem it incap of be adequ chart , then I have anoth idea for you . If you attent regard almost ani quadrup ' s spine , you will be struck with the resembl of it vertebra to a strung necklac of dwarf skull , all bear rudiment resembl to the skull proper . It is a german conceit , that the vertebra are absolut undevelop skull . but the curiou extern resembl , I take it the german were not the first men to perceiv . A foreign friend onc point it out to me , in the skeleton of a foe he had slain , and with the vertebra of which he wa inlay , in a sort of basso - relievo , the beak prow of hi cano . now , I consid that the phrenologist have omit an import thing in not push their investig from the cerebellum through the spinal canal . for I believ that much of a man ' s charact will be found betoken in hi backbon . I would rather feel your spine than your skull , whoever you are . A thin joist of a spine never yet upheld a full and nobl soul . I rejoic in my spine , as in the firm audaci staff of that flag which I fling half out to the world . appli thi spinal branch of phrenolog to the sperm whale . hi cranial caviti is continu with the first neck - vertebra ; and in that vertebra the bottom of the spinal canal will measur ten inch across , be eight in height , and of a triangular figur with the base downward . As it pass through the remain vertebra the canal taper in size , but for a consider distanc remain of larg capac . now , of cours , thi canal is fill with much the same strang fibrou substanc -- the spinal cord -- as the brain ; and directli commun with the brain . and what is still more , for mani feet after emerg from the brain ' s caviti , the spinal cord remain of an undecreas girth , almost equal to that of the brain . under all these circumst , would it be unreason to survey and map out the whale ' s spine phrenolog ? for , view in thi light , the wonder compar small of hi brain proper is more than compens by the wonder compar magnitud of hi spinal cord . but leav thi hint to oper as it may with the phrenologist , I would mere assum the spinal theori for a moment , in refer to the sperm whale ' s hump . thi august hump , if I mistak not , rise over one of the larger vertebra , and is , therefor , in some sort , the outer convex mould of it . from it rel situat then , I should call thi high hump the organ of firm or indomit in the sperm whale . and that the great monster is indomit , you will yet have reason to know . chapter 81 the pequod meet the virgin . the predestin day arriv , and we duli met the ship jungfrau , derick De deer , master , of bremen . At one time the greatest whale peopl in the world , the dutch and german are now among the least ; but here and there at veri wide interv of latitud and longitud , you still occasion meet with their flag in the pacif . for some reason , the jungfrau seem quit eager to pay her respect . while yet some distanc from the pequod , she round to , and drop a boat , her captain wa impel toward us , impati stand in the bow instead of the stern . `` what ha he in hi hand there ? '' cri starbuck , point to someth wavingli held by the german . `` imposs ! -- a lamp - feeder ! '' `` not that , '' said stubb , `` no , no , it ' s a coffe - pot , Mr . starbuck ; he ' s come off to make us our coffe , is the yarman ; don ' t you see that big tin can there alongsid of him ? -- that ' s hi boil water . Oh ! he ' s all right , is the yarman . '' `` Go along with you , '' cri flask , `` it ' s a lamp - feeder and an oil - can . He ' s out of oil , and ha come a - beg . '' howev curiou it may seem for an oil - ship to be borrow oil on the whale - ground , and howev much it may invertedli contradict the old proverb about carri coal to newcastl , yet sometim such a thing realli happen ; and in the present case captain derick De deer did indubit conduct a lamp - feeder as flask did declar . As he mount the deck , ahab abruptli accost him , without at all heed what he had in hi hand ; but in hi broken lingo , the german soon evinc hi complet ignor of the white whale ; immedi turn the convers to hi lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remark touch hi have to turn into hi hammock at night in profound dark -- hi last drop of bremen oil be gone , and not a singl fli - fish yet captur to suppli the defici ; conclud by hint that hi ship wa inde what in the fisheri is technic call a clean one ( that is , an empti one ) , well deserv the name of jungfrau or the virgin . hi necess suppli , derick depart ; but he had not gain hi ship ' s side , when whale were almost simultan rais from the mast - head of both vessel ; and so eager for the chase wa derick , that without paus to put hi oil - can and lamp - feeder aboard , he slew round hi boat and made after the leviathan lamp - feeder . now , the game have risen to leeward , he and the other three german boat that soon follow him , had consider the start of the pequod ' s keel . there were eight whale , an averag pod . awar of their danger , they were go all abreast with great speed straight befor the wind , rub their flank as close as so mani span of hors in har . they left a great , wide wake , as though continu unrol a great wide parchment upon the sea . full in thi rapid wake , and mani fathom in the rear , swam a huge , hump old bull , which by hi compar slow progress , as well as by the unusu yellowish incrust overgrow him , seem afflict with the jaundic , or some other infirm . whether thi whale belong to the pod in advanc , seem question ; for it is not customari for such vener leviathan to be at all social . nevertheless , he stuck to their wake , though inde their back water must have retard him , becaus the white - bone or swell at hi broad muzzl wa a dash one , like the swell form when two hostil current meet . hi spout wa short , slow , and labori ; come forth with a choke sort of gush , and spend itself in torn shred , follow by strang subterranean commot in him , which seem to have egress at hi other buri extrem , caus the water behind him to upbubbl . `` who ' s got some paregor ? '' said stubb , `` he ha the stomach - ach , I ' m afraid . lord , think of have half an acr of stomach - ach ! advers wind are hold mad christma in him , boy . It ' s the first foul wind I ever knew to blow from astern ; but look , did ever whale yaw so befor ? it must be , he ' s lost hi tiller . '' As an overladen indiaman bear down the hindostan coast with a deck load of frighten hors , careen , buri , roll , and wallow on her way ; so did thi old whale heav hi age bulk , and now and then partli turn over on hi cumbrou rib - end , expos the caus of hi deviou wake in the unnatur stump of hi starboard fin . whether he had lost that fin in battl , or had been born without it , it were hard to say . `` onli wait a bit , old chap , and I ' ll give ye a sling for that wound arm , '' cri cruel flask , point to the whale - line near him . `` mind he don ' t sling thee with it , '' cri starbuck . `` give way , or the german will have him . '' with one intent all the combin rival boat were point for thi one fish , becaus not onli wa he the largest , and therefor the most valuabl whale , but he wa nearest to them , and the other whale were go with such great veloc , moreov , as almost to defi pursuit for the time . At thi junctur the pequod ' s keel had shot by the three german boat last lower ; but from the great start he had had , derick ' s boat still led the chase , though everi moment near by hi foreign rival . the onli thing they fear , wa , that from be alreadi so nigh to hi mark , he would be enabl to dart hi iron befor they could complet overtak and pass him . As for derick , he seem quit confid that thi would be the case , and occasion with a derid gestur shook hi lamp - feeder at the other boat . `` the ungraci and ungrat dog ! '' cri starbuck ; `` he mock and dare me with the veri poor - box I fill for him not five minut ago ! '' -- then in hi old intens whisper -- '' give way , greyhound ! dog to it ! '' `` I tell ye what it is , men `` -- cri stubb to hi crew -- '' it ' s against my religion to get mad ; but I ' d like to eat that villain yarman -- pull -- won ' t ye ? are ye go to let that rascal beat ye ? Do ye love brandi ? A hogshead of brandi , then , to the best man . come , whi don ' t some of ye burst a blood - vessel ? who ' s that been drop an anchor overboard -- we don ' t budg an inch -- we ' re becalm . halloo , here ' s grass grow in the boat ' s bottom -- and by the lord , the mast there ' s bud . thi won ' t do , boy . look at that yarman ! the short and long of it is , men , will ye spit fire or not ? '' `` Oh ! see the sud he make ! '' cri flask , danc up and down -- '' what a hump -- Oh , DO pile on the beef -- lay like a log ! Oh ! my lad , DO spring -- slap - jack and quahog for supper , you know , my lad -- bake clam and muffin -- oh , DO , DO , spring , -- he ' s a hundr barrel -- don ' t lose him now -- don ' t oh , don ' T ! -- see that yarman -- Oh , won ' t ye pull for your duff , my lad -- such a sog ! such a sogger ! don ' t ye love sperm ? there goe three thousand dollar , men ! -- a bank ! -- a whole bank ! the bank of england ! -- Oh , DO , DO , DO ! -- what ' s that yarman about now ? '' At thi moment derick wa in the act of pitch hi lamp - feeder at the advanc boat , and also hi oil - can ; perhap with the doubl view of retard hi rival ' way , and at the same time econom acceler hi own by the momentari impetu of the backward toss . `` the unmannerli dutch dogger ! '' cri stubb . `` pull now , men , like fifti thousand line - of - battl - ship load of red - hair devil . what d ' ye say , tashtego ; are you the man to snap your spine in two - and - twenti piec for the honour of old gayhead ? what d ' ye say ? '' `` I say , pull like god - dam , '' -- cri the indian . fierc , but evenli incit by the taunt of the german , the pequod ' s three boat now began rang almost abreast ; and , so dispos , momentarili near him . In that fine , loos , chivalr attitud of the headsman when draw near to hi prey , the three mate stood up proudli , occasion back the after oarsman with an exhilar cri of , `` there she slide , now ! hurrah for the white - ash breez ! down with the yarman ! sail over him ! '' but so decid an origin start had derick had , that spite of all their gallantri , he would have prove the victor in thi race , had not a righteou judgment descend upon him in a crab which caught the blade of hi midship oarsman . while thi clumsi lubber wa strive to free hi white - ash , and while , in consequ , derick ' s boat wa nigh to capsiz , and he thunder away at hi men in a mighti rage ; -- that wa a good time for starbuck , stubb , and flask . with a shout , they took a mortal start forward , and slantingli rang up on the german ' s quarter . An instant more , and all four boat were diagon in the whale ' s immedi wake , while stretch from them , on both side , wa the foam swell that he made . It wa a terrif , most pitiabl , and madden sight . the whale wa now go head out , and send hi spout befor him in a continu torment jet ; while hi one poor fin beat hi side in an agoni of fright . now to thi hand , now to that , he yaw in hi falter flight , and still at everi billow that he broke , he spasmod sank in the sea , or sideway roll toward the sky hi one beat fin . So have I seen a bird with clip wing make affright broken circl in the air , vainli strive to escap the pirat hawk . but the bird ha a voic , and with plaintiv cri will make known her fear ; but the fear of thi vast dumb brute of the sea , wa chain up and enchant in him ; he had no voic , save that choke respir through hi spiracl , and thi made the sight of him unspeak pitiabl ; while still , in hi amaz bulk , portculli jaw , and omnipot tail , there wa enough to appal the stoutest man who so piti . see now that but a veri few moment more would give the pequod ' s boat the advantag , and rather than be thu foil of hi game , derick chose to hazard what to him must have seem a most unusu long dart , ere the last chanc would for ever escap . but no sooner did hi harpoon stand up for the stroke , than all three tiger -- queequeg , tashtego , daggoo -- instinct sprang to their feet , and stand in a diagon row , simultan point their barb ; and dart over the head of the german harpoon , their three nantucket iron enter the whale . blind vapour of foam and white - fire ! the three boat , in the first furi of the whale ' s headlong rush , bump the german ' s asid with such forc , that both derick and hi baffl harpoon were spill out , and sail over by the three fli keel . `` don ' t be afraid , my butter - box , '' cri stubb , cast a pass glanc upon them as he shot by ; `` ye ' ll be pick up present -- all right -- I saw some shark astern -- St . bernard ' s dog , you know -- reliev distress travel . hurrah ! thi is the way to sail now . everi keel a sunbeam ! hurrah ! -- here we go like three tin kettl at the tail of a mad cougar ! thi put me in mind of fasten to an eleph in a tilburi on a plain -- make the wheel - spoke fli , boy , when you fasten to him that way ; and there ' s danger of be pitch out too , when you strike a hill . hurrah ! thi is the way a fellow feel when he ' s go to davi jone -- all a rush down an endless inclin plane ! hurrah ! thi whale carri the everlast mail ! '' but the monster ' s run wa a brief one . give a sudden gasp , he tumultu sound . with a grate rush , the three line flew round the loggerhead with such a forc as to goug deep groov in them ; while so fear were the harpoon that thi rapid sound would soon exhaust the line , that use all their dexter might , they caught repeat smoke turn with the rope to hold on ; till at last -- owe to the perpendicular strain from the lead - line chock of the boat , whenc the three rope went straight down into the blue -- the gunwal of the bow were almost even with the water , while the three stern tilt high in the air . and the whale soon ceas to sound , for some time they remain in that attitud , fear of expend more line , though the posit wa a littl ticklish . but though boat have been taken down and lost in thi way , yet it is thi `` hold on , '' as it is call ; thi hook up by the sharp barb of hi live flesh from the back ; thi it is that often torment the leviathan into soon rise again to meet the sharp lanc of hi foe . yet not to speak of the peril of the thing , it is to be doubt whether thi cours is alway the best ; for it is but reason to presum , that the longer the stricken whale stay under water , the more he is exhaust . becaus , owe to the enorm surfac of him -- in a full grown sperm whale someth less than 2000 squar feet -- the pressur of the water is immens . We all know what an astonish atmospher weight we ourselv stand up under ; even here , abov - ground , in the air ; how vast , then , the burden of a whale , bear on hi back a column of two hundr fathom of ocean ! It must at least equal the weight of fifti atmospher . one whaleman ha estim it at the weight of twenti line - of - battl ship , with all their gun , and store , and men on board . As the three boat lay there on that gentli roll sea , gaze down into it etern blue noon ; and as not a singl groan or cri of ani sort , nay , not so much as a rippl or a bubbl came up from it depth ; what landsman would have thought , that beneath all that silenc and placid , the utmost monster of the sea wa writh and wrench in agoni ! not eight inch of perpendicular rope were visibl at the bow . seem it credibl that by three such thin thread the great leviathan wa suspend like the big weight to an eight day clock . suspend ? and to what ? To three bit of board . Is thi the creatur of whom it wa onc so triumphantli said -- '' canst thou fill hi skin with barb iron ? or hi head with fish - spear ? the sword of him that layeth at him can not hold , the spear , the dart , nor the habergeon : he esteemeth iron as straw ; the arrow can not make him flee ; dart are count as stubbl ; he laugheth at the shake of a spear ! '' thi the creatur ? thi he ? Oh ! that unfulfil should follow the prophet . for with the strength of a thousand thigh in hi tail , leviathan had run hi head under the mountain of the sea , to hide him from the pequod ' s fish - spear ! In that slope afternoon sunlight , the shadow that the three boat sent down beneath the surfac , must have been long enough and broad enough to shade half xerx ' armi . who can tell how appal to the wound whale must have been such huge phantom flit over hi head ! `` stand by , men ; he stir , '' cri starbuck , as the three line suddenli vibrat in the water , distinctli conduct upward to them , as by magnet wire , the life and death throb of the whale , so that everi oarsman felt them in hi seat . the next moment , reliev in great part from the downward strain at the bow , the boat gave a sudden bounc upward , as a small icefield will , when a dens herd of white bear are scare from it into the sea . `` haul in ! haul in ! '' cri starbuck again ; `` he ' s rise . '' the line , of which , hardli an instant befor , not one hand ' s breadth could have been gain , were now in long quick coil flung back all drip into the boat , and soon the whale broke water within two ship ' s length of the hunter . hi motion plainli denot hi extrem exhaust . In most land anim there are certain valv or flood - gate in mani of their vein , wherebi when wound , the blood is in some degre at least instantli shut off in certain direct . not so with the whale ; one of whose peculiar it is to have an entir non - valvular structur of the blood - vessel , so that when pierc even by so small a point as a harpoon , a deadli drain is at onc begun upon hi whole arteri system ; and when thi is heighten by the extraordinari pressur of water at a great distanc below the surfac , hi life may be said to pour from him in incess stream . yet so vast is the quantiti of blood in him , and so distant and numer it interior fountain , that he will keep thu bleed and bleed for a consider period ; even as in a drought a river will flow , whose sourc is in the well - spring of far - off and undiscern hill . even now , when the boat pull upon thi whale , and peril drew over hi sway fluke , and the lanc were dart into him , they were follow by steadi jet from the new made wound , which kept continu play , while the natur spout - hole in hi head wa onli at interv , howev rapid , send it affright moistur into the air . from thi last vent no blood yet came , becaus no vital part of him had thu far been struck . hi life , as they significantli call it , wa untouch . As the boat now more close surround him , the whole upper part of hi form , with much of it that is ordinarili submerg , wa plainli reveal . hi eye , or rather the place where hi eye had been , were beheld . As strang misgrown mass gather in the knot - hole of the noblest oak when prostrat , so from the point which the whale ' s eye had onc occupi , now protrud blind bulb , horribl pitiabl to see . but piti there wa none . for all hi old age , and hi one arm , and hi blind eye , he must die the death and be murder , in order to light the gay bridal and other merri - make of men , and also to illumin the solemn church that preach uncondit inoffens by all to all . still roll in hi blood , at last he partial disclos a strang discolour bunch or protuber , the size of a bushel , low down on the flank . `` A nice spot , '' cri flask ; `` just let me prick him there onc . '' `` avast ! '' cri starbuck , `` there ' s no need of that ! '' but human starbuck wa too late . At the instant of the dart an ulcer jet shot from thi cruel wound , and goad by it into more than suffer anguish , the whale now spout thick blood , with swift furi blindli dart at the craft , bespatt them and their glori crew all over with shower of gore , capsiz flask ' s boat and mar the bow . It wa hi death stroke . for , by thi time , so spent wa he by loss of blood , that he helplessli roll away from the wreck he had made ; lay pant on hi side , impot flap with hi stump fin , then over and over slowli revolv like a wane world ; turn up the white secret of hi belli ; lay like a log , and die . It wa most piteou , that last expir spout . As when by unseen hand the water is gradual drawn off from some mighti fountain , and with half - stifl melancholi gurgl the spray - column lower and lower to the ground -- so the last long die spout of the whale . soon , while the crew were await the arriv of the ship , the bodi show symptom of sink with all it treasur unrifl . immedi , by starbuck ' s order , line were secur to it at differ point , so that ere long everi boat wa a buoy ; the sunken whale be suspend a few inch beneath them by the cord . By veri heed manag , when the ship drew nigh , the whale wa transfer to her side , and wa strongli secur there by the stiffest fluke - chain , for it wa plain that unless artifici upheld , the bodi would at onc sink to the bottom . It so chanc that almost upon first cut into him with the spade , the entir length of a corrod harpoon wa found imbed in hi flesh , on the lower part of the bunch befor describ . but as the stump of harpoon are frequent found in the dead bodi of captur whale , with the flesh perfectli heal around them , and no promin of ani kind to denot their place ; therefor , there must need have been some other unknown reason in the present case fulli to account for the ulcer allud to . but still more curiou wa the fact of a lanc - head of stone be found in him , not far from the buri iron , the flesh perfectli firm about it . who had dart that stone lanc ? and when ? It might have been dart by some nor ' west indian long befor america wa discov . what other marvel might have been rummag out of thi monstrou cabinet there is no tell . but a sudden stop wa put to further discoveri , by the ship ' s be unprecedentedli drag over sideway to the sea , owe to the bodi ' s immens increas tendenc to sink . howev , starbuck , who had the order of affair , hung on to it to the last ; hung on to it so resolut , inde , that when at length the ship would have been capsiz , if still persist in lock arm with the bodi ; then , when the command wa given to break clear from it , such wa the immov strain upon the timber - head to which the fluke - chain and cabl were fasten , that it wa imposs to cast them off . meantim everyth in the pequod wa aslant . To cross to the other side of the deck wa like walk up the steep gabl roof of a hous . the ship groan and gasp . mani of the ivori inlay of her bulwark and cabin were start from their place , by the unnatur disloc . In vain handspik and crow were brought to bear upon the immov fluke - chain , to pri them adrift from the timberhead ; and so low had the whale now settl that the submerg end could not be at all approach , while everi moment whole ton of ponderos seem ad to the sink bulk , and the ship seem on the point of go over . `` hold on , hold on , won ' t ye ? '' cri stubb to the bodi , `` don ' t be in such a devil of a hurri to sink ! By thunder , men , we must do someth or go for it . No use pri there ; avast , I say with your handspik , and run one of ye for a prayer book and a pen - knife , and cut the big chain . '' `` knife ? aye , aye , '' cri queequeg , and seiz the carpent ' s heavi hatchet , he lean out of a porthol , and steel to iron , began slash at the largest fluke - chain . but a few stroke , full of spark , were given , when the exceed strain effect the rest . with a terrif snap , everi fasten went adrift ; the ship right , the carcas sank . now , thi occasion inevit sink of the recent kill sperm whale is a veri curiou thing ; nor ha ani fisherman yet adequ account for it . usual the dead sperm whale float with great buoyanc , with it side or belli consider elev abov the surfac . If the onli whale that thu sank were old , meagr , and broken - heart creatur , their pad of lard diminish and all their bone heavi and rheumat ; then you might with some reason assert that thi sink is caus by an uncommon specif graviti in the fish so sink , consequ upon thi absenc of buoyant matter in him . but it is not so . for young whale , in the highest health , and swell with nobl aspir , prematur cut off in the warm flush and may of life , with all their pant lard about them ; even these brawni , buoyant hero do sometim sink . Be it said , howev , that the sperm whale is far less liabl to thi accid than ani other speci . where one of that sort go down , twenti right whale do . thi differ in the speci is no doubt imput in no small degre to the greater quantiti of bone in the right whale ; hi venetian blind alon sometim weigh more than a ton ; from thi incumbr the sperm whale is wholli free . but there are instanc where , after the laps of mani hour or sever day , the sunken whale again rise , more buoyant than in life . but the reason of thi is obviou . gase are gener in him ; he swell to a prodigi magnitud ; becom a sort of anim balloon . A line - of - battl ship could hardli keep him under then . In the shore whale , on sound , among the bay of new zealand , when a right whale give token of sink , they fasten buoy to him , with plenti of rope ; so that when the bodi ha gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascend again . It wa not long after the sink of the bodi that a cri wa heard from the pequod ' s mast - head , announc that the jungfrau wa again lower her boat ; though the onli spout in sight wa that of a fin - back , belong to the speci of uncaptur whale , becaus of it incred power of swim . nevertheless , the fin - back ' s spout is so similar to the sperm whale ' s , that by unskil fishermen it is often mistaken for it . and consequ derick and all hi host were now in valiant chase of thi unnear brute . the virgin crowd all sail , made after her four young keel , and thu they all disappear far to leeward , still in bold , hope chase . Oh ! mani are the fin - back , and mani are the derick , my friend . chapter 82 the honour and glori of whale . there are some enterpris in which a care disorderli is the true method . the more I dive into thi matter of whale , and push my research up to the veri spring - head of it so much the more am I impress with it great honour and antiqu ; and especi when I find so mani great demi - god and hero , prophet of all sort , who one way or other have shed distinct upon it , I am transport with the reflect that I myself belong , though but subordin , to so emblazon a fratern . the gallant perseu , a son of jupit , wa the first whaleman ; and to the etern honour of our call be it said , that the first whale attack by our brotherhood wa not kill with ani sordid intent . those were the knightli day of our profess , when we onli bore arm to succor the distress , and not to fill men ' s lamp - feeder . everi one know the fine stori of perseu and andromeda ; how the love andromeda , the daughter of a king , wa tie to a rock on the sea - coast , and as leviathan wa in the veri act of carri her off , perseu , the princ of whalemen , intrepidli advanc , harpoon the monster , and deliv and marri the maid . It wa an admir artist exploit , rare achiev by the best harpoon of the present day ; inasmuch as thi leviathan wa slain at the veri first dart . and let no man doubt thi arkit stori ; for in the ancient joppa , now jaffa , on the syrian coast , in one of the pagan templ , there stood for mani age the vast skeleton of a whale , which the citi ' s legend and all the inhabit assert to be the ident bone of the monster that perseu slew . when the roman took joppa , the same skeleton wa carri to itali in triumph . what seem most singular and suggest import in thi stori , is thi : it wa from joppa that jonah set sail . akin to the adventur of perseu and andromeda -- inde , by some suppos to be indirectli deriv from it -- is that famou stori of St . georg and the dragon ; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale ; for in mani old chronicl whale and dragon are strang jumbl togeth , and often stand for each other . `` thou art as a lion of the water , and as a dragon of the sea , '' saith ezekiel ; herebi , plainli mean a whale ; in truth , some version of the bibl use that word itself . besid , it would much subtract from the glori of the exploit had St . georg but encount a crawl reptil of the land , instead of do battl with the great monster of the deep . ani man may kill a snake , but onli a perseu , a St . georg , a coffin , have the heart in them to march boldli up to a whale . let not the modern paint of thi scene mislead us ; for though the creatur encount by that valiant whaleman of old is vagu repres of a griffin - like shape , and though the battl is depict on land and the saint on horseback , yet consid the great ignor of those time , when the true form of the whale wa unknown to artist ; and consid that as in perseu ' case , St . georg ' s whale might have crawl up out of the sea on the beach ; and consid that the anim ridden by St . georg might have been onli a larg seal , or sea - hors ; bear all thi in mind , it will not appear altogeth incompat with the sacr legend and the ancientest draught of the scene , to hold thi so - call dragon no other than the great leviathan himself . In fact , place befor the strict and pierc truth , thi whole stori will fare like that fish , flesh , and fowl idol of the philistin , dagon by name ; who be plant befor the ark of israel , hi hors ' s head and both the palm of hi hand fell off from him , and onli the stump or fishi part of him remain . thu , then , one of our own nobl stamp , even a whaleman , is the tutelari guardian of england ; and by good right , we harpoon of nantucket should be enrol in the most nobl order of St . georg . and therefor , let not the knight of that honour compani ( none of whom , I ventur to say , have ever had to do with a whale like their great patron ) , let them never eye a nantucket with disdain , sinc even in our woollen frock and tar trowser we are much better entitl to St . georg ' s decor than they . whether to admit hercul among us or not , concern thi I long remain dubiou : for though accord to the greek mytholog , that antiqu crockett and kit carson -- that brawni doer of rejoic good deed , wa swallow down and thrown up by a whale ; still , whether that strictli make a whaleman of him , that might be moot . It nowher appear that he ever actual harpoon hi fish , unless , inde , from the insid . nevertheless , he may be deem a sort of involuntari whaleman ; at ani rate the whale caught him , if he did not the whale . I claim him for one of our clan . but , by the best contradictori author , thi grecian stori of hercul and the whale is consid to be deriv from the still more ancient hebrew stori of jonah and the whale ; and vice versa ; certainli they are veri similar . If I claim the demigod then , whi not the prophet ? nor do hero , saint , demigod , and prophet alon compris the whole roll of our order . our grand master is still to be name ; for like royal king of old time , we find the head water of our fratern in noth short of the great god themselv . that wondrou orient stori is now to be rehears from the shaster , which give us the dread vishnoo , one of the three person in the godhead of the hindoo ; give us thi divin vishnoo himself for our lord ; -- vishnoo , who , by the first of hi ten earthli incarn , ha for ever set apart and sanctifi the whale . when brahma , or the god of god , saith the shaster , resolv to recreat the world after one of it period dissolut , he gave birth to vishnoo , to presid over the work ; but the veda , or mystic book , whose perus would seem to have been indispens to vishnoo befor begin the creation , and which therefor must have contain someth in the shape of practic hint to young architect , these veda were lie at the bottom of the water ; so vishnoo becam incarn in a whale , and sound down in him to the uttermost depth , rescu the sacr volum . wa not thi vishnoo a whaleman , then ? even as a man who ride a hors is call a horseman ? perseu , St . georg , hercul , jonah , and vishnoo ! there ' s a member - roll for you ! what club but the whaleman ' s can head off like that ? chapter 83 jonah histor regard . refer wa made to the histor stori of jonah and the whale in the preced chapter . now some nantucket rather distrust thi histor stori of jonah and the whale . but then there were some sceptic greek and roman , who , stand out from the orthodox pagan of their time , equal doubt the stori of hercul and the whale , and arion and the dolphin ; and yet their doubt those tradit did not make those tradit one whit the less fact , for all that . one old sag - harbor whaleman ' s chief reason for question the hebrew stori wa thi : -- He had one of those quaint old - fashion bibl , embellish with curiou , unscientif plate ; one of which repres jonah ' s whale with two spout in hi head -- a peculiar onli true with respect to a speci of the leviathan ( the right whale , and the varieti of that order ) , concern which the fishermen have thi say , `` A penni roll would choke him `` ; hi swallow is so veri small . but , to thi , bishop jebb ' s anticip answer is readi . It is not necessari , hint the bishop , that we consid jonah as tomb in the whale ' s belli , but as temporarili lodg in some part of hi mouth . and thi seem reason enough in the good bishop . for truli , the right whale ' s mouth would accommod a coupl of whist - tabl , and comfort seat all the player . possibl , too , jonah might have ensconc himself in a hollow tooth ; but , on second thought , the right whale is toothless . anoth reason which sag - harbor ( he went by that name ) urg for hi want of faith in thi matter of the prophet , wa someth obscur in refer to hi incarcer bodi and the whale ' s gastric juic . but thi object likewis fall to the ground , becaus a german exegetist suppos that jonah must have taken refug in the float bodi of a dead whale -- even as the french soldier in the russian campaign turn their dead hors into tent , and crawl into them . besid , it ha been divin by other continent comment , that when jonah wa thrown overboard from the joppa ship , he straightway effect hi escap to anoth vessel near by , some vessel with a whale for a figur - head ; and , I would add , possibl call `` the whale , '' as some craft are nowaday christen the `` shark , '' the `` gull , '' the `` eagl . '' nor have there been want learn exegetist who have opin that the whale mention in the book of jonah mere meant a life - preserv -- an inflat bag of wind -- which the endang prophet swam to , and so wa save from a wateri doom . poor sag - harbor , therefor , seem worst all round . but he had still anoth reason for hi want of faith . It wa thi , if I rememb right : jonah wa swallow by the whale in the mediterranean sea , and after three day he wa vomit up somewher within three day ' journey of nineveh , a citi on the tigri , veri much more than three day ' journey across from the nearest point of the mediterranean coast . how is that ? but wa there no other way for the whale to land the prophet within that short distanc of nineveh ? ye . He might have carri him round by the way of the cape of good hope . but not to speak of the passag through the whole length of the mediterranean , and anoth passag up the persian gulf and red sea , such a supposit would involv the complet circumnavig of all africa in three day , not to speak of the tigri water , near the site of nineveh , be too shallow for ani whale to swim in . besid , thi idea of jonah ' s weather the cape of good hope at so earli a day would wrest the honour of the discoveri of that great headland from bartholomew diaz , it reput discover , and so make modern histori a liar . but all these foolish argument of old sag - harbor onli evinc hi foolish pride of reason -- a thing still more reprehens in him , see that he had but littl learn except what he had pick up from the sun and the sea . I say it onli show hi foolish , impiou pride , and abomin , devilish rebellion against the reverend clergi . for by a portugues cathol priest , thi veri idea of jonah ' s go to nineveh via the cape of good hope wa advanc as a signal magnif of the gener miracl . and so it wa . besid , to thi day , the highli enlighten turk devoutli believ in the histor stori of jonah . and some three centuri ago , an english travel in old harri ' s voyag , speak of a turkish mosqu built in honour of jonah , in which mosqu wa a miracul lamp that burnt without ani oil . chapter 84 pitchpol . To make them run easili and swiftli , the axl of carriag are anoint ; and for much the same purpos , some whaler perform an analog oper upon their boat ; they greas the bottom . nor is it to be doubt that as such a procedur can do no harm , it may possibl be of no contempt advantag ; consid that oil and water are hostil ; that oil is a slide thing , and that the object in view is to make the boat slide brave . queequeg believ strongli in anoint hi boat , and one morn not long after the german ship jungfrau disappear , took more than customari pain in that occup ; crawl under it bottom , where it hung over the side , and rub in the unctuous as though dilig seek to insur a crop of hair from the craft ' s bald keel . He seem to be work in obedi to some particular presenti . nor did it remain unwarr by the event . toward noon whale were rais ; but so soon as the ship sail down to them , they turn and fled with swift precipit ; a disord flight , as of cleopatra ' s barg from actium . nevertheless , the boat pursu , and stubb ' s wa foremost . By great exert , tashtego at last succeed in plant one iron ; but the stricken whale , without at all sound , still continu hi horizont flight , with ad fleet . such unintermit strain upon the plant iron must sooner or later inevit extract it . It becam imper to lanc the fli whale , or be content to lose him . but to haul the boat up to hi flank wa imposs , he swam so fast and furiou . what then remain ? Of all the wondrou devic and dexter , the sleight of hand and countless subtleti , to which the veteran whaleman is so often forc , none exceed that fine manoeuvr with the lanc call pitchpol . small sword , or broad sword , in all it exercis boast noth like it . It is onli indispens with an inveter run whale ; it grand fact and featur is the wonder distanc to which the long lanc is accur dart from a violent rock , jerk boat , under extrem headway . steel and wood includ , the entir spear is some ten or twelv feet in length ; the staff is much slighter than that of the harpoon , and also of a lighter materi -- pine . It is furnish with a small rope call a warp , of consider length , by which it can be haul back to the hand after dart . but befor go further , it is import to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpol in the same way with the lanc , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequent success , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compar with the lanc , which in effect becom seriou drawback . As a gener thing , therefor , you must first get fast to a whale , befor ani pitchpol come into play . look now at stubb ; a man who from hi humor , deliber cool and equanim in the direst emerg , wa special qualifi to excel in pitchpol . look at him ; he stand upright in the toss bow of the fli boat ; wrapt in fleeci foam , the tow whale is forti feet ahead . handl the long lanc lightli , glanc twice or thrice along it length to see if it be exactli straight , stubb whistlingli gather up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secur it free end in hi grasp , leav the rest unobstruct . then hold the lanc full befor hi waistband ' s middl , he level it at the whale ; when , cover him with it , he steadili depress the butt - end in hi hand , therebi elev the point till the weapon stand fairli balanc upon hi palm , fifteen feet in the air . He mind you somewhat of a juggler , balanc a long staff on hi chin . next moment with a rapid , nameless impuls , in a superb lofti arch the bright steel span the foam distanc , and quiver in the life spot of the whale . instead of sparkl water , he now spout red blood . `` that drove the spigot out of him ! '' cri stubb . `` ' ti juli ' s immort fourth ; all fountain must run wine today ! would now , it were old orlean whiskey , or old ohio , or unspeak old monongahela ! then , tashtego , lad , I ' d have ye hold a canakin to the jet , and we ' d drink round it ! yea , verili , heart aliv , we ' d brew choic punch in the spread of hi spout - hole there , and from that live punch - bowl quaff the live stuff . '' again and again to such gamesom talk , the dexter dart is repeat , the spear return to it master like a greyhound held in skil leash . the agon whale goe into hi flurri ; the tow - line is slacken , and the pitchpol drop astern , fold hi hand , and mute watch the monster die . chapter 85 the fountain . that for six thousand year -- and no one know how mani million of age befor -- the great whale should have been spout all over the sea , and sprinkl and mistifi the garden of the deep , as with so mani sprinkl or mistifi pot ; and that for some centuri back , thousand of hunter should have been close by the fountain of the whale , watch these sprinkl and spout -- that all thi should be , and yet , that down to thi bless minut ( fifteen and a quarter minut past one o ' clock P . M . of thi sixteenth day of decemb , A . D . 1851 ) , it should still remain a problem , whether these spout are , after all , realli water , or noth but vapour -- thi is sure a noteworthi thing . let us , then , look at thi matter , along with some interest item conting . everi one know that by the peculiar cun of their gill , the finni tribe in gener breath the air which at all time is combin with the element in which they swim ; henc , a her or a cod might live a centuri , and never onc rais it head abov the surfac . but owe to hi mark intern structur which give him regular lung , like a human be ' s , the whale can onli live by inhal the disengag air in the open atmospher . wherefor the necess for hi period visit to the upper world . but he can not in ani degre breath through hi mouth , for , in hi ordinari attitud , the sperm whale ' s mouth is buri at least eight feet beneath the surfac ; and what is still more , hi windpip ha no connexion with hi mouth . No , he breath through hi spiracl alon ; and thi is on the top of hi head . If I say , that in ani creatur breath is onli a function indispens to vital , inasmuch as it withdraw from the air a certain element , which be subsequ brought into contact with the blood impart to the blood it vivifi principl , I do not think I shall err ; though I may possibl use some superflu scientif word . assum it , and it follow that if all the blood in a man could be aerat with one breath , he might then seal up hi nostril and not fetch anoth for a consider time . that is to say , he would then live without breath . anomal as it may seem , thi is precis the case with the whale , who systemat live , by interv , hi full hour and more ( when at the bottom ) without draw a singl breath , or so much as in ani way inhal a particl of air ; for , rememb , he ha no gill . how is thi ? between hi rib and on each side of hi spine he is suppli with a remark involv cretan labyrinth of vermicelli - like vessel , which vessel , when he quit the surfac , are complet distend with oxygen blood . So that for an hour or more , a thousand fathom in the sea , he carri a surplu stock of vital in him , just as the camel cross the waterless desert carri a surplu suppli of drink for futur use in it four supplementari stomach . the anatom fact of thi labyrinth is indisput ; and that the supposit found upon it is reason and true , seem the more cogent to me , when I consid the otherwis inexplic obstinaci of that leviathan in have hi spout out , as the fishermen phrase it . thi is what I mean . If unmolest , upon rise to the surfac , the sperm whale will continu there for a period of time exactli uniform with all hi other unmolest rise . say he stay eleven minut , and jet seventi time , that is , respir seventi breath ; then whenev he rise again , he will be sure to have hi seventi breath over again , to a minut . now , if after he fetch a few breath you alarm him , so that he sound , he will be alway dodg up again to make good hi regular allow of air . and not till those seventi breath are told , will he final go down to stay out hi full term below . remark , howev , that in differ individu these rate are differ ; but in ani one they are alik . now , whi should the whale thu insist upon have hi spout out , unless it be to replenish hi reservoir of air , ere descend for good ? how obviou is it , too , that thi necess for the whale ' s rise expos him to all the fatal hazard of the chase . for not by hook or by net could thi vast leviathan be caught , when sail a thousand fathom beneath the sunlight . not so much thi skill , then , O hunter , as the great necess that strike the victori to thee ! In man , breath is incessantli go on -- one breath onli serv for two or three pulsat ; so that whatev other busi he ha to attend to , wake or sleep , breath he must , or die he will . but the sperm whale onli breath about one seventh or sunday of hi time . It ha been said that the whale onli breath through hi spout - hole ; if it could truth be ad that hi spout are mix with water , then I opin we should be furnish with the reason whi hi sens of smell seem obliter in him ; for the onli thing about him that at all answer to hi nose is that ident spout - hole ; and be so clog with two element , it could not be expect to have the power of smell . but owe to the mysteri of the spout -- whether it be water or whether it be vapour -- no absolut certainti can as yet be arriv at on thi head . sure it is , nevertheless , that the sperm whale ha no proper olfactori . but what doe he want of them ? No rose , no violet , no cologn - water in the sea . furthermor , as hi windpip sole open into the tube of hi spout canal , and as that long canal -- like the grand eri canal -- is furnish with a sort of lock ( that open and shut ) for the downward retent of air or the upward exclus of water , therefor the whale ha no voic ; unless you insult him by say , that when he so strang rumbl , he talk through hi nose . but then again , what ha the whale to say ? seldom have I known ani profound be that had anyth to say to thi world , unless forc to stammer out someth by way of get a live . Oh ! happi that the world is such an excel listen ! now , the spout canal of the sperm whale , chiefli intend as it is for the convey of air , and for sever feet laid along , horizont , just beneath the upper surfac of hi head , and a littl to one side ; thi curiou canal is veri much like a ga - pipe laid down in a citi on one side of a street . but the question return whether thi ga - pipe is also a water - pipe ; in other word , whether the spout of the sperm whale is the mere vapour of the exhal breath , or whether that exhal breath is mix with water taken in at the mouth , and discharg through the spiracl . It is certain that the mouth indirectli commun with the spout canal ; but it can not be prove that thi is for the purpos of discharg water through the spiracl . becaus the greatest necess for so do would seem to be , when in feed he accident take in water . but the sperm whale ' s food is far beneath the surfac , and there he can not spout even if he would . besid , if you regard him veri close , and time him with your watch , you will find that when unmolest , there is an undevi rhyme between the period of hi jet and the ordinari period of respir . but whi pester one with all thi reason on the subject ? speak out ! you have seen him spout ; then declar what the spout is ; can you not tell water from air ? My dear sir , in thi world it is not so easi to settl these plain thing . I have ever found your plain thing the knottiest of all . and as for thi whale spout , you might almost stand in it , and yet be undecid as to what it is precis . the central bodi of it is hidden in the snowi sparkl mist envelop it ; and how can you certainli tell whether ani water fall from it , when , alway , when you are close enough to a whale to get a close view of hi spout , he is in a prodigi commot , the water cascad all around him . and if at such time you should think that you realli perceiv drop of moistur in the spout , how do you know that they are not mere condens from it vapour ; or how do you know that they are not those ident drop superfici lodg in the spout - hole fissur , which is countersunk into the summit of the whale ' s head ? for even when tranquilli swim through the mid - day sea in a calm , with hi elev hump sun - dri as a dromedari ' s in the desert ; even then , the whale alway carri a small basin of water on hi head , as under a blaze sun you will sometim see a caviti in a rock fill up with rain . nor is it at all prudent for the hunter to be over curiou touch the precis natur of the whale spout . It will not do for him to be peer into it , and put hi face in it . you can not go with your pitcher to thi fountain and fill it , and bring it away . for even when come into slight contact with the outer , vapouri shred of the jet , which will often happen , your skin will feverishli smart , from the acrid of the thing so touch it . and I know one , who come into still closer contact with the spout , whether with some scientif object in view , or otherwis , I can not say , the skin peel off from hi cheek and arm . wherefor , among whalemen , the spout is deem poison ; they tri to evad it . anoth thing ; I have heard it said , and I do not much doubt it , that if the jet is fairli spout into your eye , it will blind you . the wisest thing the investig can do then , it seem to me , is to let thi deadli spout alon . still , we can hypothes , even if we can not prove and establish . My hypothesi is thi : that the spout is noth but mist . and besid other reason , to thi conclus I am impel , by consider touch the great inher digniti and sublim of the sperm whale ; I account him no common , shallow be , inasmuch as it is an undisput fact that he is never found on sound , or near shore ; all other whale sometim are . He is both ponder and profound . and I am convinc that from the head of all ponder profound be , such as plato , pyrrho , the devil , jupit , dant , and so on , there alway goe up a certain semi - visibl steam , while in the act of think deep thought . while compos a littl treatis on etern , I had the curios to place a mirror befor me ; and ere long saw reflect there , a curiou involv worm and undul in the atmospher over my head . the invari moistur of my hair , while plung in deep thought , after six cup of hot tea in my thin shingl attic , of an august noon ; thi seem an addit argument for the abov supposit . and how nobli it rais our conceit of the mighti , misti monster , to behold him solemnli sail through a calm tropic sea ; hi vast , mild head overhung by a canopi of vapour , engend by hi incommunic contempl , and that vapour -- as you will sometim see it -- glorifi by a rainbow , as if heaven itself had put it seal upon hi thought . for , d ' ye see , rainbow do not visit the clear air ; they onli irradi vapour . and so , through all the thick mist of the dim doubt in my mind , divin intuit now and then shoot , enkindl my fog with a heavenli ray . and for thi I thank god ; for all have doubt ; mani deni ; but doubt or denial , few along with them , have intuit . doubt of all thing earthli , and intuit of some thing heavenli ; thi combin make neither believ nor infidel , but make a man who regard them both with equal eye . chapter 86 the tail . other poet have warbl the prais of the soft eye of the antelop , and the love plumag of the bird that never alight ; less celesti , I celebr a tail . reckon the largest size sperm whale ' s tail to begin at that point of the trunk where it taper to about the girth of a man , it compris upon it upper surfac alon , an area of at least fifti squar feet . the compact round bodi of it root expand into two broad , firm , flat palm or fluke , gradual shoal away to less than an inch in thick . At the crotch or junction , these fluke slightli overlap , then sideway reced from each other like wing , leav a wide vacanc between . In no live thing are the line of beauti more exquisit defin than in the crescent border of these fluke . At it utmost expans in the full grown whale , the tail will consider exceed twenti feet across . the entir member seem a dens web bed of weld sinew ; but cut into it , and you find that three distinct strata compos it : -- upper , middl , and lower . the fibr in the upper and lower layer , are long and horizont ; those of the middl one , veri short , and run crosswis between the outsid layer . thi triun structur , as much as anyth els , impart power to the tail . To the student of old roman wall , the middl layer will furnish a curiou parallel to the thin cours of tile alway altern with the stone in those wonder relic of the antiqu , and which undoubtedli contribut so much to the great strength of the masonri . but as if thi vast local power in the tendin tail were not enough , the whole bulk of the leviathan is knit over with a warp and woof of muscular fibr and filament , which pass on either side the loin and run down into the fluke , insens blend with them , and larg contribut to their might ; so that in the tail the confluent measureless forc of the whole whale seem concentr to a point . could annihil occur to matter , thi were the thing to do it . nor doe thi -- it amaz strength , at all tend to crippl the grace flexion of it motion ; where infantil of eas undul through a titan of power . On the contrari , those motion deriv their most appal beauti from it . real strength never impair beauti or harmoni , but it often bestow it ; and in everyth imposingli beauti , strength ha much to do with the magic . take away the tie tendon that all over seem burst from the marbl in the carv hercul , and it charm would be gone . As devout eckerman lift the linen sheet from the nake corps of goeth , he wa overwhelm with the massiv chest of the man , that seem as a roman triumphal arch . when angelo paint even god the father in human form , mark what robust is there . and whatev they may reveal of the divin love in the son , the soft , curl , hermaphrodit italian pictur , in which hi idea ha been most success embodi ; these pictur , so destitut as they are of all brawni , hint noth of ani power , but the mere neg , feminin one of submiss and endur , which on all hand it is conced , form the peculiar practic virtu of hi teach . such is the subtl elast of the organ I treat of , that whether wield in sport , or in earnest , or in anger , whatev be the mood it be in , it flexion are invari mark by exceed grace . therein no fairi ' s arm can transcend it . five great motion are peculiar to it . first , when use as a fin for progress ; second , when use as a mace in battl ; third , in sweep ; fourth , in lobtail ; fifth , in peak fluke . first : be horizont in it posit , the leviathan ' s tail act in a differ manner from the tail of all other sea creatur . It never wriggl . In man or fish , wriggl is a sign of inferior . To the whale , hi tail is the sole mean of propuls . scroll - wise coil forward beneath the bodi , and then rapidli sprung backward , it is thi which give that singular dart , leap motion to the monster when furious swim . hi side - fin onli serv to steer by . second : It is a littl signific , that while one sperm whale onli fight anoth sperm whale with hi head and jaw , nevertheless , in hi conflict with man , he chiefli and contemptu use hi tail . In strike at a boat , he swiftli curv away hi fluke from it , and the blow is onli inflict by the recoil . If it be made in the unobstruct air , especi if it descend to it mark , the stroke is then simpli irresist . No rib of man or boat can withstand it . your onli salvat lie in elud it ; but if it come sideway through the oppos water , then partli owe to the light buoyanc of the whale boat , and the elast of it materi , a crack rib or a dash plank or two , a sort of stitch in the side , is gener the most seriou result . these submerg side blow are so often receiv in the fisheri , that they are account mere child ' s play . some one strip off a frock , and the hole is stop . third : I can not demonstr it , but it seem to me , that in the whale the sens of touch is concentr in the tail ; for in thi respect there is a delicaci in it onli equal by the dainti of the eleph ' s trunk . thi delicaci is chiefli evinc in the action of sweep , when in maidenli gentl the whale with a certain soft slow move hi immens fluke from side to side upon the surfac of the sea ; and if he feel but a sailor ' s whisker , woe to that sailor , whisker and all . what tender there is in that preliminari touch ! had thi tail ani prehensil power , I should straightway bethink me of darmonod ' eleph that so frequent the flower - market , and with low salut present nosegay to damsel , and then caress their zone . On more account than one , a piti it is that the whale doe not possess thi prehensil virtu in hi tail ; for I have heard of yet anoth eleph , that when wound in the fight , curv round hi trunk and extract the dart . fourth : steal unawar upon the whale in the fanci secur of the middl of solitari sea , you find him unbent from the vast corpul of hi digniti , and kitten - like , he play on the ocean as if it were a hearth . but still you see hi power in hi play . the broad palm of hi tail are flirt high into the air ; then smite the surfac , the thunder concuss resound for mile . you would almost think a great gun had been discharg ; and if you notic the light wreath of vapour from the spiracl at hi other extrem , you would think that that wa the smoke from the touch - hole . fifth : As in the ordinari float postur of the leviathan the fluke lie consider below the level of hi back , they are then complet out of sight beneath the surfac ; but when he is about to plung into the deep , hi entir fluke with at least thirti feet of hi bodi are toss erect in the air , and so remain vibrat a moment , till they downward shoot out of view . except the sublim breach -- somewher els to be describ -- thi peak of the whale ' s fluke is perhap the grandest sight to be seen in all anim natur . out of the bottomless profund the gigant tail seem spasmod snatch at the highest heaven . So in dream , have I seen majest satan thrust forth hi torment coloss claw from the flame baltic of hell . but in gaze at such scene , it is all in all what mood you are in ; if in the dantean , the devil will occur to you ; if in that of isaiah , the archangel . stand at the mast - head of my ship dure a sunris that crimson sky and sea , I onc saw a larg herd of whale in the east , all head toward the sun , and for a moment vibrat in concert with peak fluke . As it seem to me at the time , such a grand embodi of ador of the god wa never beheld , even in persia , the home of the fire worshipp . As ptolemi philopat testifi of the african eleph , I then testifi of the whale , pronounc him the most devout of all be . for accord to king juba , the militari eleph of antiqu often hail the morn with their trunk uplift in the profoundest silenc . the chanc comparison in thi chapter , between the whale and the eleph , so far as some aspect of the tail of the one and the trunk of the other are concern , should not tend to place those two opposit organ on an equal , much less the creatur to which they respect belong . for as the mightiest eleph is but a terrier to leviathan , so , compar with leviathan ' s tail , hi trunk is but the stalk of a lili . the most dire blow from the eleph ' s trunk were as the play tap of a fan , compar with the measureless crush and crash of the sperm whale ' s ponder fluke , which in repeat instanc have one after the other hurl entir boat with all their oar and crew into the air , veri much as an indian juggler toss hi ball . * * though all comparison in the way of gener bulk between the whale and the eleph is preposter , inasmuch as in that particular the eleph stand in much the same respect to the whale that a dog doe to the eleph ; nevertheless , there are not want some point of curiou similitud ; among these is the spout . It is well known that the eleph will often draw up water or dust in hi trunk , and then elev it , jet it forth in a stream . the more I consid thi mighti tail , the more do I deplor my inabl to express it . At time there are gestur in it , which , though they would well grace the hand of man , remain wholli inexplic . In an extens herd , so remark , occasion , are these mystic gestur , that I have heard hunter who have declar them akin to free - mason sign and symbol ; that the whale , inde , by these method intellig convers with the world . nor are there want other motion of the whale in hi gener bodi , full of strang , and unaccount to hi most experienc assail . dissect him how I may , then , I but go skin deep ; I know him not , and never will . but if I know not even the tail of thi whale , how understand hi head ? much more , how comprehend hi face , when face he ha none ? thou shalt see my back part , my tail , he seem to say , but my face shall not be seen . but I can not complet make out hi back part ; and hint what he will about hi face , I say again he ha no face . chapter 87 the grand armada . the long and narrow peninsula of malacca , extend south - eastward from the territori of birmah , form the most southerli point of all asia . In a continu line from that peninsula stretch the long island of sumatra , java , balli , and timor ; which , with mani other , form a vast mole , or rampart , lengthwis connect asia with australia , and divid the long unbroken indian ocean from the thickli stud orient archipelago . thi rampart is pierc by sever salli - port for the conveni of ship and whale ; conspicu among which are the strait of sunda and malacca . By the strait of sunda , chiefli , vessel bound to china from the west , emerg into the china sea . those narrow strait of sunda divid sumatra from java ; and stand midway in that vast rampart of island , buttress by that bold green promontori , known to seamen as java head ; they not a littl correspond to the central gateway open into some vast wall empir : and consid the inexhaust wealth of spice , and silk , and jewel , and gold , and ivori , with which the thousand island of that orient sea are enrich , it seem a signific provis of natur , that such treasur , by the veri format of the land , should at least bear the appear , howev ineffectu , of be guard from the all - grasp western world . the shore of the strait of sunda are unsuppli with those domin fortress which guard the entranc to the mediterranean , the baltic , and the proponti . unlik the dane , these orient do not demand the obsequi homag of lower top - sail from the endless process of ship befor the wind , which for centuri past , by night and by day , have pass between the island of sumatra and java , freight with the costliest cargo of the east . but while they freeli waiv a ceremoni like thi , they do by no mean renounc their claim to more solid tribut . time out of mind the pirat proa of the malay , lurk among the low shade cove and islet of sumatra , have salli out upon the vessel sail through the strait , fierc demand tribut at the point of their spear . though by the repeat bloodi chastis they have receiv at the hand of european cruiser , the audac of these corsair ha of late been somewhat repress ; yet , even at the present day , we occasion hear of english and american vessel , which , in those water , have been remorselessli board and pillag . with a fair , fresh wind , the pequod wa now draw nigh to these strait ; ahab purpos to pass through them into the javan sea , and thenc , cruis northward , over water known to be frequent here and there by the sperm whale , sweep inshor by the philippin island , and gain the far coast of japan , in time for the great whale season there . By these mean , the circumnavig pequod would sweep almost all the known sperm whale cruis ground of the world , previou to descend upon the line in the pacif ; where ahab , though everywher els foil in hi pursuit , firmli count upon give battl to mobi dick , in the sea he wa most known to frequent ; and at a season when he might most reason be presum to be haunt it . but how now ? in thi zone quest , doe ahab touch no land ? doe hi crew drink air ? sure , he will stop for water . nay . for a long time , now , the circu - run sun ha race within hi fieri ring , and need no susten but what ' s in himself . So ahab . mark thi , too , in the whaler . while other hull are load down with alien stuff , to be transfer to foreign wharv ; the world - wander whale - ship carri no cargo but herself and crew , their weapon and their want . she ha a whole lake ' s content bottl in her ampl hold . she is ballast with util ; not altogeth with unus pig - lead and kentledg . she carri year ' water in her . clear old prime nantucket water ; which , when three year afloat , the nantucket , in the pacif , prefer to drink befor the brackish fluid , but yesterday raft off in cask , from the peruvian or indian stream . henc it is , that , while other ship may have gone to china from new york , and back again , touch at a score of port , the whale - ship , in all that interv , may not have sight one grain of soil ; her crew have seen no man but float seamen like themselv . So that did you carri them the news that anoth flood had come ; they would onli answer -- '' well , boy , here ' s the ark ! '' now , as mani sperm whale had been captur off the western coast of java , in the near vicin of the strait of sunda ; inde , as most of the ground , roundabout , wa gener recognis by the fishermen as an excel spot for cruis ; therefor , as the pequod gain more and more upon java head , the look - out were repeatedli hail , and admonish to keep wide awak . but though the green palmi cliff of the land soon loom on the starboard bow , and with delight nostril the fresh cinnamon wa snuf in the air , yet not a singl jet wa descri . almost renounc all thought of fall in with ani game hereabout , the ship had well nigh enter the strait , when the customari cheer cri wa heard from aloft , and ere long a spectacl of singular magnific salut us . but here be it premis , that owe to the unweari activ with which of late they have been hunt over all four ocean , the sperm whale , instead of almost invari sail in small detach compani , as in former time , are now frequent met with in extens herd , sometim embrac so great a multitud , that it would almost seem as if numer nation of them had sworn solemn leagu and coven for mutual assist and protect . To thi aggreg of the sperm whale into such immens caravan , may be imput the circumst that even in the best cruis ground , you may now sometim sail for week and month togeth , without be greet by a singl spout ; and then be suddenli salut by what sometim seem thousand on thousand . broad on both bow , at the distanc of some two or three mile , and form a great semicircl , embrac one half of the level horizon , a continu chain of whale - jet were up - play and sparkl in the noon - day air . unlik the straight perpendicular twin - jet of the right whale , which , divid at top , fall over in two branch , like the cleft droop bough of a willow , the singl forward - slant spout of the sperm whale present a thick curl bush of white mist , continu rise and fall away to leeward . seen from the pequod ' s deck , then , as she would rise on a high hill of the sea , thi host of vapouri spout , individu curl up into the air , and beheld through a blend atmospher of bluish haze , show like the thousand cheer chimney of some dens metropoli , descri of a balmi autumn morn , by some horseman on a height . As march armi approach an unfriendli defil in the mountain , acceler their march , all eager to place that peril passag in their rear , and onc more expand in compar secur upon the plain ; even so did thi vast fleet of whale now seem hurri forward through the strait ; gradual contract the wing of their semicircl , and swim on , in one solid , but still crescent centr . crowd all sail the pequod press after them ; the harpoon handl their weapon , and loudli cheer from the head of their yet suspend boat . If the wind onli held , littl doubt had they , that chase through these strait of sunda , the vast host would onli deploy into the orient sea to wit the captur of not a few of their number . and who could tell whether , in that congreg caravan , mobi dick himself might not temporarili be swim , like the worship white - eleph in the coron process of the siames ! So with stun - sail pile on stun - sail , we sail along , drive these leviathan befor us ; when , of a sudden , the voic of tashtego wa heard , loudli direct attent to someth in our wake . correspond to the crescent in our van , we beheld anoth in our rear . It seem form of detach white vapour , rise and fall someth like the spout of the whale ; onli they did not so complet come and go ; for they constantli hover , without final disappear . level hi glass at thi sight , ahab quickli revolv in hi pivot - hole , cri , `` aloft there , and rig whip and bucket to wet the sail ; -- malay , sir , and after us ! '' As if too long lurk behind the headland , till the pequod should fairli have enter the strait , these rascal asiat were now in hot pursuit , to make up for their over - cautiou delay . but when the swift pequod , with a fresh lead wind , wa herself in hot chase ; how veri kind of these tawni philanthropist to assist in speed her on to her own chosen pursuit , -- mere ride - whip and rowel to her , that they were . As with glass under arm , ahab to - and - fro pace the deck ; in hi forward turn behold the monster he chase , and in the after one the bloodthirsti pirat chase him ; some such fanci as the abov seem hi . and when he glanc upon the green wall of the wateri defil in which the ship wa then sail , and bethought him that through that gate lay the rout to hi vengeanc , and beheld , how that through that same gate he wa now both chase and be chase to hi deadli end ; and not onli that , but a herd of remorseless wild pirat and inhuman atheist devil were infern cheer him on with their curs ; -- when all these conceit had pass through hi brain , ahab ' s brow wa left gaunt and rib , like the black sand beach after some stormi tide ha been gnaw it , without be abl to drag the firm thing from it place . but thought like these troubl veri few of the reckless crew ; and when , after steadili drop and drop the pirat astern , the pequod at last shot by the vivid green cockatoo point on the sumatra side , emerg at last upon the broad water beyond ; then , the harpoon seem more to griev that the swift whale had been gain upon the ship , than to rejoic that the ship had so victori gain upon the malay . but still drive on in the wake of the whale , at length they seem abat their speed ; gradual the ship near them ; and the wind now die away , word wa pass to spring to the boat . but no sooner did the herd , by some presum wonder instinct of the sperm whale , becom notifi of the three keel that were after them , -- though as yet a mile in their rear , -- than they ralli again , and form in close rank and battalion , so that their spout all look like flash line of stack bayonet , move on with redoubl veloc . strip to our shirt and drawer , we sprang to the white - ash , and after sever hour ' pull were almost dispos to renounc the chase , when a gener paus commot among the whale gave anim token that they were now at last under the influenc of that strang perplex of inert irresolut , which , when the fishermen perceiv it in the whale , they say he is galli . the compact martial column in which they had been hitherto rapidli and steadili swim , were now broken up in one measureless rout ; and like king poru ' eleph in the indian battl with alexand , they seem go mad with constern . In all direct expand in vast irregular circl , and aimlessli swim hither and thither , by their short thick spout , they plainli betray their distract of panic . thi wa still more strang evinc by those of their number , who , complet paralys as it were , helplessli float like water - log dismantl ship on the sea . had these leviathan been but a flock of simpl sheep , pursu over the pastur by three fierc wolv , they could not possibl have evinc such excess dismay . but thi occasion timid is characterist of almost all herd creatur . though band togeth in ten of thousand , the lion - mane buffalo of the west have fled befor a solitari horseman . wit , too , all human be , how when herd togeth in the sheepfold of a theatr ' s pit , they will , at the slightest alarm of fire , rush helter - skelter for the outlet , crowd , trampl , jam , and remorselessli dash each other to death . best , therefor , withhold ani amaz at the strang galli whale befor us , for there is no folli of the beast of the earth which is not infinit outdon by the mad of men . though mani of the whale , as ha been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observ that as a whole the herd neither advanc nor retreat , but collect remain in one place . As is customari in those case , the boat at onc separ , each make for some one lone whale on the outskirt of the shoal . In about three minut ' time , queequeg ' s harpoon wa flung ; the stricken fish dart blind spray in our face , and then run away with us like light , steer straight for the heart of the herd . though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumst , is in no wise unpreced ; and inde is almost alway more or less anticip ; yet doe it present one of the more peril vicissitud of the fisheri . for as the swift monster drag you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and onli exist in a deliri throb . As , blind and deaf , the whale plung forward , as if by sheer power of speed to rid himself of the iron leech that had fasten to him ; as we thu tore a white gash in the sea , on all side menac as we flew , by the craze creatur to and fro rush about us ; our beset boat wa like a ship mob by ice - isl in a tempest , and strive to steer through their complic channel and strait , know not at what moment it may be lock in and crush . but not a bit daunt , queequeg steer us man ; now sheer off from thi monster directli across our rout in advanc ; now edg away from that , whose coloss fluke were suspend overhead , while all the time , starbuck stood up in the bow , lanc in hand , prick out of our way whatev whale he could reach by short dart , for there wa no time to make long one . nor were the oarsmen quit idl , though their wont duti wa now altogeth dispens with . they chiefli attend to the shout part of the busi . `` out of the way , commodor ! '' cri one , to a great dromedari that of a sudden rose bodili to the surfac , and for an instant threaten to swamp us . `` hard down with your tail , there ! '' cri a second to anoth , which , close to our gunwal , seem calmli cool himself with hi own fan - like extrem . all whaleboat carri certain curiou contriv , origin invent by the nantucket indian , call drugg . two thick squar of wood of equal size are stoutli clench togeth , so that they cross each other ' s grain at right angl ; a line of consider length is then attach to the middl of thi block , and the other end of the line be loop , it can in a moment be fasten to a harpoon . It is chiefli among galli whale that thi drugg is use . for then , more whale are close round you than you can possibl chase at one time . but sperm whale are not everi day encount ; while you may , then , you must kill all you can . and if you can not kill them all at onc , you must wing them , so that they can be afterward kill at your leisur . henc it is , that at time like these the drugg , come into requisit . our boat wa furnish with three of them . the first and second were success dart , and we saw the whale staggeringli run off , fetter by the enorm sidelong resist of the tow drugg . they were cramp like malefactor with the chain and ball . but upon fling the third , in the act of toss overboard the clumsi wooden block , it caught under one of the seat of the boat , and in an instant tore it out and carri it away , drop the oarsman in the boat ' s bottom as the seat slid from under him . On both side the sea came in at the wound plank , but we stuf two or three drawer and shirt in , and so stop the leak for the time . It had been next to imposs to dart these drug - harpoon , were it not that as we advanc into the herd , our whale ' s way greatli diminish ; moreov , that as we went still further and further from the circumfer of commot , the dire disord seem wane . So that when at last the jerk harpoon drew out , and the tow whale sideway vanish ; then , with the taper forc of hi part momentum , we glide between two whale into the innermost heart of the shoal , as if from some mountain torrent we had slid into a seren valley lake . here the storm in the roar glen between the outermost whale , were heard but not felt . In thi central expans the sea present that smooth satin - like surfac , call a sleek , produc by the subtl moistur thrown off by the whale in hi more quiet mood . ye , we were now in that enchant calm which they say lurk at the heart of everi commot . and still in the distract distanc we beheld the tumult of the outer concentr circl , and saw success pod of whale , eight or ten in each , swiftli go round and round , like multipli span of hors in a ring ; and so close shoulder to shoulder , that a titan circu - rider might easili have over - arch the middl one , and so have gone round on their back . owe to the densiti of the crowd of repos whale , more immedi surround the embay axi of the herd , no possibl chanc of escap wa at present afford us . We must watch for a breach in the live wall that hem us in ; the wall that had onli admit us in order to shut us up . keep at the centr of the lake , we were occasion visit by small tame cow and calv ; the women and children of thi rout host . now , inclus of the occasion wide interv between the revolv outer circl , and inclus of the space between the variou pod in ani one of those circl , the entir area at thi junctur , embrac by the whole multitud , must have contain at least two or three squar mile . At ani rate -- though inde such a test at such a time might be decept -- spout might be discov from our low boat that seem play up almost from the rim of the horizon . I mention thi circumst , becaus , as if the cow and calv had been purpos lock up in thi innermost fold ; and as if the wide extent of the herd had hitherto prevent them from learn the precis caus of it stop ; or , possibl , be so young , unsophist , and everi way innoc and inexperienc ; howev it may have been , these smaller whale -- now and then visit our becalm boat from the margin of the lake -- evinc a wondrou fearless and confid , or els a still becharm panic which it wa imposs not to marvel at . like household dog they came snuffl round us , right up to our gunwal , and touch them ; till it almost seem that some spell had suddenli domest them . queequeg pat their forehead ; starbuck scratch their back with hi lanc ; but fear of the consequ , for the time refrain from dart it . but far beneath thi wondrou world upon the surfac , anoth and still stranger world met our eye as we gaze over the side . for , suspend in those wateri vault , float the form of the nurs mother of the whale , and those that by their enorm girth seem shortli to becom mother . the lake , as I have hint , wa to a consider depth exceedingli transpar ; and as human infant while suckl will calmli and fixedli gaze away from the breast , as if lead two differ live at the time ; and while yet draw mortal nourish , be still spiritu feast upon some unearthli reminisc ; -- even so did the young of these whale seem look up toward us , but not at us , as if we were but a bit of gulfwe in their new - born sight . float on their side , the mother also seem quietli eye us . one of these littl infant , that from certain queer token seem hardli a day old , might have measur some fourteen feet in length , and some six feet in girth . He wa a littl friski ; though as yet hi bodi seem scarc yet recov from that irksom posit it had so late occupi in the matern reticul ; where , tail to head , and all readi for the final spring , the unborn whale lie bent like a tartar ' s bow . the delic side - fin , and the palm of hi fluke , still freshli retain the plait crumpl appear of a babi ' s ear newli arriv from foreign part . `` line ! line ! '' cri queequeg , look over the gunwal ; `` him fast ! him fast ! -- who line him ! who struck ? -- two whale ; one big , one littl ! '' `` what ail ye , man ? '' cri starbuck . `` look - e here , '' said queequeg , point down . As when the stricken whale , that from the tub ha reel out hundr of fathom of rope ; as , after deep sound , he float up again , and show the slacken curl line buoyantli rise and spiral toward the air ; so now , starbuck saw long coil of the umbil cord of madam leviathan , by which the young cub seem still tether to it dam . not seldom in the rapid vicissitud of the chase , thi natur line , with the matern end loos , becom entangl with the hempen one , so that the cub is therebi trap . some of the subtlest secret of the sea seem divulg to us in thi enchant pond . We saw young leviathan amour in the deep . * * the sperm whale , as with all other speci of the leviathan , but unlik most other fish , breed indiffer at all season ; after a gestat which may probabl be set down at nine month , produc but one at a time ; though in some few known instanc give birth to an esau and jacob : -- a conting provid for in suckl by two teat , curious situat , one on each side of the anu ; but the breast themselv extend upward from that . when by chanc these preciou part in a nurs whale are cut by the hunter ' s lanc , the mother ' s pour milk and blood rivallingli discolour the sea for rod . the milk is veri sweet and rich ; it ha been tast by man ; it might do well with strawberri . when overflow with mutual esteem , the whale salut more hominum . and thu , though surround by circl upon circl of constern and affright , did these inscrut creatur at the centr freeli and fearlessli indulg in all peac concern ; yea , seren revel in dallianc and delight . but even so , amid the tornado atlant of my be , do I myself still for ever central disport in mute calm ; and while ponder planet of unwan woe revolv round me , deep down and deep inland there I still bath me in etern mild of joy . meanwhil , as we thu lay entranc , the occasion sudden frantic spectacl in the distanc evinc the activ of the other boat , still engag in drug the whale on the frontier of the host ; or possibl carri on the war within the first circl , where abund of room and some conveni retreat were afford them . but the sight of the enrag drug whale now and then blindli dart to and fro across the circl , wa noth to what at last met our eye . It is sometim the custom when fast to a whale more than commonli power and alert , to seek to hamstr him , as it were , by sunder or maim hi gigant tail - tendon . It is done by dart a short - handl cut - spade , to which is attach a rope for haul it back again . A whale wound ( as we afterward learn ) in thi part , but not effectu , as it seem , had broken away from the boat , carri along with him half of the harpoon line ; and in the extraordinari agoni of the wound , he wa now dash among the revolv circl like the lone mount desperado arnold , at the battl of saratoga , carri dismay wherev he went . but agon as wa the wound of thi whale , and an appal spectacl enough , ani way ; yet the peculiar horror with which he seem to inspir the rest of the herd , wa owe to a caus which at first the interven distanc obscur from us . but at length we perceiv that by one of the unimagin accid of the fisheri , thi whale had becom entangl in the harpoon - line that he tow ; he had also run away with the cut - spade in him ; and while the free end of the rope attach to that weapon , had perman caught in the coil of the harpoon - line round hi tail , the cut - spade itself had work loos from hi flesh . So that torment to mad , he wa now churn through the water , violent flail with hi flexibl tail , and toss the keen spade about him , wound and murder hi own comrad . thi terrif object seem to recal the whole herd from their stationari fright . first , the whale form the margin of our lake began to crowd a littl , and tumbl against each other , as if lift by half spent billow from afar ; then the lake itself began faintli to heav and swell ; the submarin bridal - chamber and nurseri vanish ; in more and more contract orbit the whale in the more central circl began to swim in thicken cluster . ye , the long calm wa depart . A low advanc hum wa soon heard ; and then like to the tumultu mass of block - ice when the great river hudson break up in spring , the entir host of whale came tumbl upon their inner centr , as if to pile themselv up in one common mountain . instantli starbuck and queequeg chang place ; starbuck take the stern . `` oar ! oar ! '' he intens whisper , seiz the helm -- '' gripe your oar , and clutch your soul , now ! My god , men , stand by ! shove him off , you queequeg -- the whale there ! -- prick him ! -- hit him ! stand up -- stand up , and stay so ! spring , men -- pull , men ; never mind their back -- scrape them ! -- scrape away ! '' the boat wa now all but jam between two vast black bulk , leav a narrow dardanel between their long length . but by desper endeavor we at last shot into a temporari open ; then give way rapidli , and at the same time earnestli watch for anoth outlet . after mani similar hair - breadth escap , we at last swiftli glide into what had just been one of the outer circl , but now cross by random whale , all violent make for one centr . thi lucki salvat wa cheapli purchas by the loss of queequeg ' s hat , who , while stand in the bow to prick the fugit whale , had hi hat taken clean from hi head by the air - eddi made by the sudden toss of a pair of broad fluke close by . riotou and disord as the univers commot now wa , it soon resolv itself into what seem a systemat movement ; for have clump togeth at last in one dens bodi , they then renew their onward flight with augment fleet . further pursuit wa useless ; but the boat still linger in their wake to pick up what drug whale might be drop astern , and likewis to secur one which flask had kill and waif . the waif is a pennon pole , two or three of which are carri by everi boat ; and which , when addit game is at hand , are insert upright into the float bodi of a dead whale , both to mark it place on the sea , and also as token of prior possess , should the boat of ani other ship draw near . the result of thi lower wa somewhat illustr of that sagaci say in the fisheri , -- the more whale the less fish . Of all the drug whale onli one wa captur . the rest contriv to escap for the time , but onli to be taken , as will hereaft be seen , by some other craft than the pequod . chapter 88 school and schoolmast . the previou chapter gave account of an immens bodi or herd of sperm whale , and there wa also then given the probabl caus induc those vast aggreg . now , though such great bodi are at time encount , yet , as must have been seen , even at the present day , small detach band are occasion observ , embrac from twenti to fifti individu each . such band are known as school . they gener are of two sort ; those compos almost entir of femal , and those muster none but young vigor male , or bull , as they are familiarli design . In cavali attend upon the school of femal , you invari see a male of full grown magnitud , but not old ; who , upon ani alarm , evinc hi gallantri by fall in the rear and cover the flight of hi ladi . In truth , thi gentleman is a luxuri ottoman , swim about over the wateri world , surroundingli accompani by all the solac and endear of the harem . the contrast between thi ottoman and hi concubin is strike ; becaus , while he is alway of the largest leviathan proport , the ladi , even at full growth , are not more than one - third of the bulk of an averag - size male . they are compar delic , inde ; I dare say , not to exceed half a dozen yard round the waist . nevertheless , it can not be deni , that upon the whole they are hereditarili entitl to embonpoint . It is veri curiou to watch thi harem and it lord in their indol rambl . like fashion , they are for ever on the move in leisur search of varieti . you meet them on the line in time for the full flower of the equatori feed season , have just return , perhap , from spend the summer in the northern sea , and so cheat summer of all unpleas weari and warmth . By the time they have loung up and down the promenad of the equat awhil , they start for the orient water in anticip of the cool season there , and so evad the other excess temperatur of the year . when seren advanc on one of these journey , if ani strang suspici sight are seen , my lord whale keep a wari eye on hi interest famili . should ani unwarrant pert young leviathan come that way , presum to draw confidenti close to one of the ladi , with what prodigi furi the bashaw assail him , and chase him away ! high time , inde , if unprincipl young rake like him are to be permit to invad the sanctiti of domest bliss ; though do what the bashaw will , he can not keep the most notori lothario out of hi bed ; for , ala ! all fish bed in common . As ashor , the ladi often caus the most terribl duel among their rival admir ; just so with the whale , who sometim come to deadli battl , and all for love . they fenc with their long lower jaw , sometim lock them togeth , and so strive for the supremaci like elk that warringli interweav their antler . not a few are captur have the deep scar of these encount , -- furrow head , broken teeth , scollop fin ; and in some instanc , wrench and disloc mouth . but suppos the invad of domest bliss to betak himself away at the first rush of the harem ' s lord , then is it veri divert to watch that lord . gentli he insinu hi vast bulk among them again and revel there awhil , still in tantal vicin to young lothario , like piou solomon devoutli worship among hi thousand concubin . grant other whale to be in sight , the fishermen will seldom give chase to one of these grand turk ; for these grand turk are too lavish of their strength , and henc their unctuous is small . As for the son and the daughter they beget , whi , those son and daughter must take care of themselv ; at least , with onli the matern help . for like certain other omnivor rove lover that might be name , my lord whale ha no tast for the nurseri , howev much for the bower ; and so , be a great travel , he leav hi anonym babi all over the world ; everi babi an exot . In good time , nevertheless , as the ardour of youth declin ; as year and dump increas ; as reflect lend her solemn paus ; in short , as a gener lassitud overtak the sate turk ; then a love of eas and virtu supplant the love for maiden ; our ottoman enter upon the impot , repent , admonitori stage of life , forswear , disband the harem , and grown to an exemplari , sulki old soul , goe about all alon among the meridian and parallel say hi prayer , and warn each young leviathan from hi amor error . now , as the harem of whale is call by the fishermen a school , so is the lord and master of that school technic known as the schoolmast . It is therefor not in strict charact , howev admir satir , that after go to school himself , he should then go abroad inculc not what he learn there , but the folli of it . hi titl , schoolmast , would veri natur seem deriv from the name bestow upon the harem itself , but some have surmis that the man who first thu entitl thi sort of ottoman whale , must have read the memoir of vidocq , and inform himself what sort of a countri - schoolmast that famou frenchman wa in hi younger day , and what wa the natur of those occult lesson he inculc into some of hi pupil . the same secluded and isol to which the schoolmast whale betak himself in hi advanc year , is true of all age sperm whale . almost univers , a lone whale -- as a solitari leviathan is call -- prove an ancient one . like vener moss - beard daniel boon , he will have no one near him but natur herself ; and her he take to wife in the wilder of water , and the best of wive she is , though she keep so mani moodi secret . the school compos none but young and vigor male , previous mention , offer a strong contrast to the harem school . for while those femal whale are characterist timid , the young male , or forti - barrel - bull , as they call them , are by far the most pugnaci of all leviathan , and proverbi the most danger to encount ; except those wondrou grey - head , grizzl whale , sometim met , and these will fight you like grim fiend exasper by a penal gout . the forti - barrel - bull school are larger than the harem school . like a mob of young collegian , they are full of fight , fun , and wicked , tumbl round the world at such a reckless , rollick rate , that no prudent underwrit would insur them ani more than he would a riotou lad at yale or harvard . they soon relinquish thi turbul though , and when about three - fourth grown , break up , and separ go about in quest of settlement , that is , harem . anoth point of differ between the male and femal school is still more characterist of the sex . say you strike a forti - barrel - bull -- poor devil ! all hi comrad quit him . but strike a member of the harem school , and her companion swim around her with everi token of concern , sometim linger so near her and so long , as themselv to fall a prey . chapter 89 fast - fish and loos - fish . the allus to the waif and waif - pole in the last chapter but one , necessit some account of the law and regul of the whale fisheri , of which the waif may be deem the grand symbol and badg . It frequent happen that when sever ship are cruis in compani , a whale may be struck by one vessel , then escap , and be final kill and captur by anoth vessel ; and herein are indirectli compris mani minor conting , all partak of thi one grand featur . for exampl , -- after a weari and peril chase and captur of a whale , the bodi may get loos from the ship by reason of a violent storm ; and drift far away to leeward , be retaken by a second whaler , who , in a calm , snugli tow it alongsid , without risk of life or line . thu the most vexati and violent disput would often aris between the fishermen , were there not some written or unwritten , univers , undisput law applic to all case . perhap the onli formal whale code author by legisl enact , wa that of holland . It wa decre by the state - gener in A . D . 1695 . but though no other nation ha ever had ani written whale law , yet the american fishermen have been their own legisl and lawyer in thi matter . they have provid a system which for ters comprehens surpass justinian ' s pandect and the By - law of the chines societi for the suppress of meddl with other peopl ' s busi . ye ; these law might be engraven on a queen ann ' s forth , or the barb of a harpoon , and worn round the neck , so small are they . I . A fast - fish belong to the parti fast to it . II . A loos - fish is fair game for anybodi who can soonest catch it . but what play the mischief with thi masterli code is the admir breviti of it , which necessit a vast volum of commentari to expound it . first : what is a fast - fish ? aliv or dead a fish is technic fast , when it is connect with an occupi ship or boat , by ani medium at all control by the occup or occup , -- a mast , an oar , a nine - inch cabl , a telegraph wire , or a strand of cobweb , it is all the same . likewis a fish is technic fast when it bear a waif , or ani other recognis symbol of possess ; so long as the parti waif it plainli evinc their abil at ani time to take it alongsid , as well as their intent so to do . these are scientif commentari ; but the commentari of the whalemen themselv sometim consist in hard word and harder knock -- the coke - upon - littleton of the fist . true , among the more upright and honour whalemen allow are alway made for peculiar case , where it would be an outrag moral injustic for one parti to claim possess of a whale previous chase or kill by anoth parti . but other are by no mean so scrupul . some fifti year ago there wa a curiou case of whale - trover litig in england , wherein the plaintiff set forth that after a hard chase of a whale in the northern sea ; and when inde they ( the plaintiff ) had succeed in harpoon the fish ; they were at last , through peril of their live , oblig to forsak not onli their line , but their boat itself . ultim the defend ( the crew of anoth ship ) came up with the whale , struck , kill , seiz , and final appropri it befor the veri eye of the plaintiff . and when those defend were remonstr with , their captain snap hi finger in the plaintiff ' teeth , and assur them that by way of doxolog to the deed he had done , he would now retain their line , harpoon , and boat , which had remain attach to the whale at the time of the seizur . wherefor the plaintiff now su for the recoveri of the valu of their whale , line , harpoon , and boat . Mr . erskin wa counsel for the defend ; lord ellenborough wa the judg . In the cours of the defenc , the witti erskin went on to illustr hi posit , by allud to a recent crim . con . case , wherein a gentleman , after in vain tri to bridl hi wife ' s vicious , had at last abandon her upon the sea of life ; but in the cours of year , repent of that step , he institut an action to recov possess of her . erskin wa on the other side ; and he then support it by say , that though the gentleman had origin harpoon the ladi , and had onc had her fast , and onli by reason of the great stress of her plung vicious , had at last abandon her ; yet abandon her he did , so that she becam a loos - fish ; and therefor when a subsequ gentleman re - harpoon her , the ladi then becam that subsequ gentleman ' s properti , along with whatev harpoon might have been found stick in her . now in the present case erskin contend that the exampl of the whale and the ladi were reciproc illustr of each other . these plead , and the counter plead , be duli heard , the veri learn judg in set term decid , to wit , -- that as for the boat , he award it to the plaintiff , becaus they had mere abandon it to save their live ; but that with regard to the controvert whale , harpoon , and line , they belong to the defend ; the whale , becaus it wa a loos - fish at the time of the final captur ; and the harpoon and line becaus when the fish made off with them , it ( the fish ) acquir a properti in those articl ; and henc anybodi who afterward took the fish had a right to them . now the defend afterward took the fish ; ergo , the aforesaid articl were their . A common man look at thi decis of the veri learn judg , might possibl object to it . but plough up to the primari rock of the matter , the two great principl laid down in the twin whale law previous quot , and appli and elucid by lord ellenborough in the abov cite case ; these two law touch fast - fish and loos - fish , I say , will , on reflect , be found the fundament of all human jurisprud ; for notwithstand it complic traceri of sculptur , the templ of the law , like the templ of the philistin , ha but two prop to stand on . Is it not a say in everi one ' s mouth , possess is half of the law : that is , regardless of how the thing came into possess ? but often possess is the whole of the law . what are the sinew and soul of russian serf and republican slave but fast - fish , whereof possess is the whole of the law ? what to the rapaci landlord is the widow ' s last mite but a fast - fish ? what is yonder undetect villain ' s marbl mansion with a door - plate for a waif ; what is that but a fast - fish ? what is the ruinou discount which mordecai , the broker , get from poor woebegon , the bankrupt , on a loan to keep woebegon ' s famili from starvat ; what is that ruinou discount but a fast - fish ? what is the archbishop of savesoul ' s incom of l100 , 000 seiz from the scant bread and chees of hundr of thousand of broken - back labor ( all sure of heaven without ani of savesoul ' s help ) what is that globular l100 , 000 but a fast - fish ? what are the duke of dunder ' s hereditari town and hamlet but fast - fish ? what to that redoubt harpoon , john bull , is poor ireland , but a fast - fish ? what to that apostol lancer , brother jonathan , is texa but a fast - fish ? and concern all these , is not possess the whole of the law ? but if the doctrin of fast - fish be pretti gener applic , the kindr doctrin of loos - fish is still more wide so . that is intern and univers applic . what wa america in 1492 but a loos - fish , in which columbu struck the spanish standard by way of waif it for hi royal master and mistress ? what wa poland to the czar ? what greec to the turk ? what india to england ? what at last will mexico be to the unit state ? all loos - fish . what are the right of man and the liberti of the world but loos - fish ? what all men ' s mind and opinion but loos - fish ? what is the principl of religi belief in them but a loos - fish ? what to the ostentati smuggl verbalist are the thought of thinker but loos - fish ? what is the great globe itself but a loos - fish ? and what are you , reader , but a loos - fish and a fast - fish , too ? chapter 90 head or tail . `` De balena vero sufficit , si rex habeat caput , et regina caudam . '' bracton , L . 3 , C . 3 . latin from the book of the law of england , which taken along with the context , mean , that of all whale captur by anybodi on the coast of that land , the king , as honourari grand harpoon , must have the head , and the queen be respect present with the tail . A divis which , in the whale , is much like halv an appl ; there is no intermedi remaind . now as thi law , under a modifi form , is to thi day in forc in england ; and as it offer in variou respect a strang anomali touch the gener law of fast and loos - fish , it is here treat of in a separ chapter , on the same courteou principl that prompt the english railway to be at the expens of a separ car , special reserv for the accommod of royalti . In the first place , in curiou proof of the fact that the abov - mention law is still in forc , I proceed to lay befor you a circumst that happen within the last two year . It seem that some honest marin of dover , or sandwich , or some one of the cinqu port , had after a hard chase succeed in kill and beach a fine whale which they had origin descri afar off from the shore . now the cinqu port are partial or somehow under the jurisdict of a sort of policeman or beadl , call a lord warden . hold the offic directli from the crown , I believ , all the royal emolu incid to the cinqu port territori becom by assign hi . By some writer thi offic is call a sinecur . but not so . becaus the lord warden is busili employ at time in fob hi perquisit ; which are hi chiefli by virtu of that same fob of them . now when these poor sun - burnt marin , bare - foot , and with their trowser roll high up on their eeli leg , had wearili haul their fat fish high and dri , promis themselv a good l150 from the preciou oil and bone ; and in fantasi sip rare tea with their wive , and good ale with their croni , upon the strength of their respect share ; up step a veri learn and most christian and charit gentleman , with a copi of blackston under hi arm ; and lay it upon the whale ' s head , he say -- '' hand off ! thi fish , my master , is a fast - fish . I seiz it as the lord warden ' s . '' upon thi the poor marin in their respect constern -- so truli english -- know not what to say , fall to vigor scratch their head all round ; meanwhil ruefulli glanc from the whale to the stranger . but that did in nowis mend the matter , or at all soften the hard heart of the learn gentleman with the copi of blackston . At length one of them , after long scratch about for hi idea , made bold to speak , `` pleas , sir , who is the lord warden ? '' `` the duke . '' `` but the duke had noth to do with take thi fish ? '' `` It is hi . '' `` We have been at great troubl , and peril , and some expens , and is all that to go to the duke ' s benefit ; we get noth at all for our pain but our blister ? '' `` It is hi . '' `` Is the duke so veri poor as to be forc to thi desper mode of get a livelihood ? '' `` It is hi . '' `` I thought to reliev my old bed - ridden mother by part of my share of thi whale . '' `` It is hi . '' `` won ' t the duke be content with a quarter or a half ? '' `` It is hi . '' In a word , the whale wa seiz and sold , and hi grace the duke of wellington receiv the money . think that view in some particular light , the case might by a bare possibl in some small degre be deem , under the circumst , a rather hard one , an honest clergyman of the town respect address a note to hi grace , beg him to take the case of those unfortun marin into full consider . To which my lord duke in substanc repli ( both letter were publish ) that he had alreadi done so , and receiv the money , and would be oblig to the reverend gentleman if for the futur he ( the reverend gentleman ) would declin meddl with other peopl ' s busi . Is thi the still milit old man , stand at the corner of the three kingdom , on all hand coerc alm of beggar ? It will readili be seen that in thi case the alleg right of the duke to the whale wa a deleg one from the sovereign . We must need inquir then on what principl the sovereign is origin invest with that right . the law itself ha alreadi been set forth . but plowdon give us the reason for it . say plowdon , the whale so caught belong to the king and queen , `` becaus of it superior excel . '' and by the soundest comment thi ha ever been held a cogent argument in such matter . but whi should the king have the head , and the queen the tail ? A reason for that , ye lawyer ! In hi treatis on `` queen - gold , '' or queen - pinmoney , an old king ' s bench author , one william prynn , thu discourseth : `` Ye tail is ye queen ' s , that ye queen ' s wardrob may be suppli with ye whalebon . '' now thi wa written at a time when the black limber bone of the greenland or right whale wa larg use in ladi ' bodic . but thi same bone is not in the tail ; it is in the head , which is a sad mistak for a sagaci lawyer like prynn . but is the queen a mermaid , to be present with a tail ? An allegor mean may lurk here . there are two royal fish so style by the english law writer -- the whale and the sturgeon ; both royal properti under certain limit , and nomin suppli the tenth branch of the crown ' s ordinari revenu . I know not that ani other author ha hint of the matter ; but by infer it seem to me that the sturgeon must be divid in the same way as the whale , the king receiv the highli dens and elast head peculiar to that fish , which , symbol regard , may possibl be humor ground upon some presum congeni . and thu there seem a reason in all thing , even in law . chapter 91 the pequod meet the rose - bud . `` In vain it wa to rake for ambergries in the paunch of thi leviathan , insuffer fetor deni not inquiri . '' sir T . brown , V . E . It wa a week or two after the last whale scene recount , and when we were slowli sail over a sleepi , vapouri , mid - day sea , that the mani nose on the pequod ' s deck prove more vigil discover than the three pair of eye aloft . A peculiar and not veri pleasant smell wa smelt in the sea . `` I will bet someth now , '' said stubb , `` that somewher hereabout are some of those drug whale we tickl the other day . I thought they would keel up befor long . '' present , the vapour in advanc slid asid ; and there in the distanc lay a ship , whose furl sail betoken that some sort of whale must be alongsid . As we glide nearer , the stranger show french colour from hi peak ; and by the eddi cloud of vultur sea - fowl that circl , and hover , and swoop around him , it wa plain that the whale alongsid must be what the fishermen call a blast whale , that is , a whale that ha die unmolest on the sea , and so float an unappropri corps . It may well be conceiv , what an unsavori odor such a mass must exhal ; wors than an assyrian citi in the plagu , when the live are incompet to buri the depart . So intoler inde is it regard by some , that no cupid could persuad them to moor alongsid of it . yet are there those who will still do it ; notwithstand the fact that the oil obtain from such subject is of a veri inferior qualiti , and by no mean of the natur of attar - of - rose . come still nearer with the expir breez , we saw that the frenchman had a second whale alongsid ; and thi second whale seem even more of a nosegay than the first . In truth , it turn out to be one of those problemat whale that seem to dri up and die with a sort of prodigi dyspepsia , or indigest ; leav their defunct bodi almost entir bankrupt of anyth like oil . nevertheless , in the proper place we shall see that no know fisherman will ever turn up hi nose at such a whale as thi , howev much he may shun blast whale in gener . the pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger , that stubb vow he recognis hi cut spade - pole entangl in the line that were knot round the tail of one of these whale . `` there ' s a pretti fellow , now , '' he banteringli laugh , stand in the ship ' s bow , `` there ' s a jackal for ye ! I well know that these crappo of frenchmen are but poor devil in the fisheri ; sometim lower their boat for breaker , mistak them for sperm whale spout ; ye , and sometim sail from their port with their hold full of box of tallow candl , and case of snuffer , forese that all the oil they will get won ' t be enough to dip the captain ' s wick into ; aye , we all know these thing ; but look ye , here ' s a crappo that is content with our leav , the drug whale there , I mean ; aye , and is content too with scrape the dri bone of that other preciou fish he ha there . poor devil ! I say , pass round a hat , some one , and let ' s make him a present of a littl oil for dear chariti ' s sake . for what oil he ' ll get from that drug whale there , wouldn ' t be fit to burn in a jail ; no , not in a condemn cell . and as for the other whale , whi , I ' ll agre to get more oil by chop up and tri out these three mast of our , than he ' ll get from that bundl of bone ; though , now that I think of it , it may contain someth worth a good deal more than oil ; ye , ambergri . I wonder now if our old man ha thought of that . It ' s worth tri . ye , I ' m for it ; '' and so say he start for the quarter - deck . By thi time the faint air had becom a complet calm ; so that whether or no , the pequod wa now fairli entrap in the smell , with no hope of escap except by it breez up again . issu from the cabin , stubb now call hi boat ' s crew , and pull off for the stranger . draw across her bow , he perceiv that in accord with the fanci french tast , the upper part of her stem - piec wa carv in the like of a huge droop stalk , wa paint green , and for thorn had copper spike project from it here and there ; the whole termin in a symmetr fold bulb of a bright red colour . upon her head board , in larg gilt letter , he read `` bouton de rose , '' -- rose - button , or rose - bud ; and thi wa the romant name of thi aromat ship . though stubb did not understand the bouton part of the inscript , yet the word rose , and the bulbou figur - head put togeth , suffici explain the whole to him . `` A wooden rose - bud , eh ? '' he cri with hi hand to hi nose , `` that will do veri well ; but how like all creation it smell ! '' now in order to hold direct commun with the peopl on deck , he had to pull round the bow to the starboard side , and thu come close to the blast whale ; and so talk over it . arriv then at thi spot , with one hand still to hi nose , he bawl -- '' bouton - de - rose , ahoy ! are there ani of you bouton - de - rose that speak english ? '' `` ye , '' rejoin a guernsey - man from the bulwark , who turn out to be the chief - mate . `` well , then , my bouton - de - rose - bud , have you seen the white whale ? '' `` what whale ? '' `` the white whale -- a sperm whale -- mobi dick , have ye seen him ? `` never heard of such a whale . cachalot blanch ! white whale -- no . '' `` veri good , then ; good bye now , and I ' ll call again in a minut . '' then rapidli pull back toward the pequod , and see ahab lean over the quarter - deck rail await hi report , he mould hi two hand into a trumpet and shout -- '' No , sir ! No ! '' upon which ahab retir , and stubb return to the frenchman . He now perceiv that the guernsey - man , who had just got into the chain , and wa use a cut - spade , had slung hi nose in a sort of bag . `` what ' s the matter with your nose , there ? '' said stubb . `` broke it ? '' `` I wish it wa broken , or that I didn ' t have ani nose at all ! '' answer the guernsey - man , who did not seem to relish the job he wa at veri much . `` but what are you hold your for ? '' `` Oh , noth ! It ' s a wax nose ; I have to hold it on . fine day , ain ' t it ? air rather gardenni , I should say ; throw us a bunch of posi , will ye , bouton - de - rose ? '' `` what in the devil ' s name do you want here ? '' roar the guernseyman , fli into a sudden passion . `` Oh ! keep cool -- cool ? ye , that ' s the word ! whi don ' t you pack those whale in ice while you ' re work at ' em ? but joke asid , though ; do you know , rose - bud , that it ' s all nonsens tri to get ani oil out of such whale ? As for that dri up one , there , he hasn ' t a gill in hi whole carcas . '' `` I know that well enough ; but , d ' ye see , the captain here won ' t believ it ; thi is hi first voyag ; he wa a cologn manufactur befor . but come aboard , and mayhap he ' ll believ you , if he won ' t me ; and so I ' ll get out of thi dirti scrape . '' `` anyth to oblig ye , my sweet and pleasant fellow , '' rejoin stubb , and with that he soon mount to the deck . there a queer scene present itself . the sailor , in tassel cap of red worst , were get the heavi tackl in readi for the whale . but they work rather slow and talk veri fast , and seem in anyth but a good humor . all their nose upwardli project from their face like so mani jib - boom . now and then pair of them would drop their work , and run up to the mast - head to get some fresh air . some think they would catch the plagu , dip oakum in coal - tar , and at interv held it to their nostril . other have broken the stem of their pipe almost short off at the bowl , were vigor puf tobacco - smoke , so that it constantli fill their olfactori . stubb wa struck by a shower of outcri and anathema proceed from the captain ' s round - hous abaft ; and look in that direct saw a fieri face thrust from behind the door , which wa held ajar from within . thi wa the torment surgeon , who , after in vain remonstr against the proceed of the day , had betaken himself to the captain ' s round - hous ( cabinet he call it ) to avoid the pest ; but still , could not help yell out hi entreati and indign at time . mark all thi , stubb argu well for hi scheme , and turn to the guernsey - man had a littl chat with him , dure which the stranger mate express hi detest of hi captain as a conceit ignoramu , who had brought them all into so unsavori and unprofit a pickl . sound him care , stubb further perceiv that the guernsey - man had not the slightest suspicion concern the ambergri . He therefor held hi peac on that head , but otherwis wa quit frank and confidenti with him , so that the two quickli concoct a littl plan for both circumv and satir the captain , without hi at all dream of distrust their sincer . accord to thi littl plan of their , the guernsey - man , under cover of an interpret ' s offic , wa to tell the captain what he pleas , but as come from stubb ; and as for stubb , he wa to utter ani nonsens that should come uppermost in him dure the interview . By thi time their destin victim appear from hi cabin . He wa a small and dark , but rather delic look man for a sea - captain , with larg whisker and moustach , howev ; and wore a red cotton velvet vest with watch - seal at hi side . To thi gentleman , stubb wa now polit introduc by the guernsey - man , who at onc ostentati put on the aspect of interpret between them . `` what shall I say to him first ? '' said he . `` whi , '' said stubb , eye the velvet vest and the watch and seal , `` you may as well begin by tell him that he look a sort of babyish to me , though I don ' t pretend to be a judg . '' `` He say , monsieur , '' said the guernsey - man , in french , turn to hi captain , `` that onli yesterday hi ship spoke a vessel , whose captain and chief - mate , with six sailor , had all die of a fever caught from a blast whale they had brought alongsid . '' upon thi the captain start , and eagerli desir to know more . `` what now ? '' said the guernsey - man to stubb . `` whi , sinc he take it so easi , tell him that now I have eye him care , I ' m quit certain that he ' s no more fit to command a whale - ship than a St . jago monkey . In fact , tell him from me he ' s a baboon . '' `` He vow and declar , monsieur , that the other whale , the dri one , is far more deadli than the blast one ; in fine , monsieur , he conjur us , as we valu our live , to cut loos from these fish . '' instantli the captain ran forward , and in a loud voic command hi crew to desist from hoist the cut - tackl , and at onc cast loos the cabl and chain confin the whale to the ship . `` what now ? '' said the guernsey - man , when the captain had return to them . `` whi , let me see ; ye , you may as well tell him now that -- that -- in fact , tell him I ' ve diddl him , and ( asid to himself ) perhap somebodi els . '' `` He say , monsieur , that he ' s veri happi to have been of ani servic to us . '' hear thi , the captain vow that they were the grate parti ( mean himself and mate ) and conclud by invit stubb down into hi cabin to drink a bottl of bordeaux . `` He want you to take a glass of wine with him , '' said the interpret . `` thank him heartili ; but tell him it ' s against my principl to drink with the man I ' ve diddl . In fact , tell him I must go . '' `` He say , monsieur , that hi principl won ' t admit of hi drink ; but that if monsieur want to live anoth day to drink , then monsieur had best drop all four boat , and pull the ship away from these whale , for it ' s so calm they won ' t drift . '' By thi time stubb wa over the side , and get into hi boat , hail the guernsey - man to thi effect , -- that have a long tow - line in hi boat , he would do what he could to help them , by pull out the lighter whale of the two from the ship ' s side . while the frenchman ' s boat , then , were engag in tow the ship one way , stubb benevol tow away at hi whale the other way , ostentati slack out a most unusu long tow - line . present a breez sprang up ; stubb feign to cast off from the whale ; hoist hi boat , the frenchman soon increas hi distanc , while the pequod slid in between him and stubb ' s whale . whereupon stubb quickli pull to the float bodi , and hail the pequod to give notic of hi intent , at onc proceed to reap the fruit of hi unright cun . seiz hi sharp boat - spade , he commenc an excav in the bodi , a littl behind the side fin . you would almost have thought he wa dig a cellar there in the sea ; and when at length hi spade struck against the gaunt rib , it wa like turn up old roman tile and potteri buri in fat english loam . hi boat ' s crew were all in high excit , eagerli help their chief , and look as anxiou as gold - hunter . and all the time numberless fowl were dive , and duck , and scream , and yell , and fight around them . stubb wa begin to look disappoint , especi as the horribl nosegay increas , when suddenli from out the veri heart of thi plagu , there stole a faint stream of perfum , which flow through the tide of bad smell without be absorb by it , as one river will flow into and then along with anoth , without at all blend with it for a time . `` I have it , I have it , '' cri stubb , with delight , strike someth in the subterranean region , `` a purs ! a purs ! '' drop hi spade , he thrust both hand in , and drew out hand of someth that look like ripe windsor soap , or rich mottl old chees ; veri unctuou and savori withal . you might easili dent it with your thumb ; it is of a hue between yellow and ash colour . and thi , good friend , is ambergri , worth a gold guinea an ounc to ani druggist . some six hand were obtain ; but more wa unavoid lost in the sea , and still more , perhap , might have been secur were it not for impati ahab ' s loud command to stubb to desist , and come on board , els the ship would bid them good bye . chapter 92 ambergri . now thi ambergri is a veri curiou substanc , and so import as an articl of commerc , that in 1791 a certain nantucket - born captain coffin wa examin at the bar of the english hous of common on that subject . for at that time , and inde until a compar late day , the precis origin of ambergri remain , like amber itself , a problem to the learn . though the word ambergri is but the french compound for grey amber , yet the two substanc are quit distinct . for amber , though at time found on the sea - coast , is also dug up in some far inland soil , wherea ambergri is never found except upon the sea . besid , amber is a hard , transpar , brittl , odorless substanc , use for mouth - piec to pipe , for bead and ornament ; but ambergri is soft , waxi , and so highli fragrant and spici , that it is larg use in perfumeri , in pastil , preciou candl , hair - powder , and pomatum . the turk use it in cook , and also carri it to mecca , for the same purpos that frankincens is carri to St . peter ' s in rome . some wine merchant drop a few grain into claret , to flavor it . who would think , then , that such fine ladi and gentlemen should regal themselv with an essenc found in the inglori bowel of a sick whale ! yet so it is . By some , ambergri is suppos to be the caus , and by other the effect , of the dyspepsia in the whale . how to cure such a dyspepsia it were hard to say , unless by administ three or four boat load of brandreth ' s pill , and then run out of harm ' s way , as labor do in blast rock . I have forgotten to say that there were found in thi ambergri , certain hard , round , boni plate , which at first stubb thought might be sailor ' trowser button ; but it afterward turn out that they were noth more than piec of small squid bone embalm in that manner . now that the incorrupt of thi most fragrant ambergri should be found in the heart of such decay ; is thi noth ? bethink thee of that say of St . paul in corinthian , about corrupt and incorrupt ; how that we are sown in dishonour , but rais in glori . and likewis call to mind that say of paracelsu about what it is that maketh the best musk . also forget not the strang fact that of all thing of ill - savor , cologn - water , in it rudiment manufactur stage , is the worst . I should like to conclud the chapter with the abov appeal , but can not , owe to my anxieti to repel a charg often made against whalemen , and which , in the estim of some alreadi bias mind , might be consid as indirectli substanti by what ha been said of the frenchman ' s two whale . elsewher in thi volum the slander aspers ha been disprov , that the vocat of whale is throughout a slatternli , untidi busi . but there is anoth thing to rebut . they hint that all whale alway smell bad . now how did thi odiou stigma origin ? I opin , that it is plainli traceabl to the first arriv of the greenland whale ship in london , more than two centuri ago . becaus those whalemen did not then , and do not now , tri out their oil at sea as the southern ship have alway done ; but cut up the fresh blubber in small bit , thrust it through the bung hole of larg cask , and carri it home in that manner ; the short of the season in those ici sea , and the sudden and violent storm to which they are expos , forbid ani other cours . the consequ is , that upon break into the hold , and unload one of these whale cemeteri , in the greenland dock , a savor is given forth somewhat similar to that aris from excav an old citi grave - yard , for the foundat of a ly - in - hospit . I partli surmis also , that thi wick charg against whaler may be likewis imput to the exist on the coast of greenland , in former time , of a dutch villag call schmerenburgh or smeerenberg , which latter name is the one use by the learn fogo von slack , in hi great work on smell , a text - book on that subject . As it name import ( smeer , fat ; berg , to put up ) , thi villag wa found in order to afford a place for the blubber of the dutch whale fleet to be tri out , without be taken home to holland for that purpos . It wa a collect of furnac , fat - kettl , and oil shed ; and when the work were in full oper certainli gave forth no veri pleasant savor . but all thi is quit differ with a south sea sperm whaler ; which in a voyag of four year perhap , after complet fill her hold with oil , doe not , perhap , consum fifti day in the busi of boil out ; and in the state that it is cask , the oil is nearli scentless . the truth is , that live or dead , if but decent treat , whale as a speci are by no mean creatur of ill odor ; nor can whalemen be recognis , as the peopl of the middl age affect to detect a jew in the compani , by the nose . nor inde can the whale possibl be otherwis than fragrant , when , as a gener thing , he enjoy such high health ; take abund of exercis ; alway out of door ; though , it is true , seldom in the open air . I say , that the motion of a sperm whale ' s fluke abov water dispens a perfum , as when a musk - scent ladi rustl her dress in a warm parlor . what then shall I liken the sperm whale to for fragranc , consid hi magnitud ? must it not be to that famou eleph , with jewel tusk , and redol with myrrh , which wa led out of an indian town to do honour to alexand the great ? chapter 93 the castaway . It wa but some few day after encount the frenchman , that a most signific event befel the most insignific of the pequod ' s crew ; an event most lament ; and which end in provid the sometim madli merri and predestin craft with a live and ever accompani propheci of whatev shatter sequel might prove her own . now , in the whale ship , it is not everi one that goe in the boat . some few hand are reserv call ship - keeper , whose provinc it is to work the vessel while the boat are pursu the whale . As a gener thing , these ship - keeper are as hardi fellow as the men compris the boat ' crew . but if there happen to be an unduli slender , clumsi , or timor wight in the ship , that wight is certain to be made a ship - keeper . It wa so in the pequod with the littl negro pippin by nick - name , pip by abbrevi . poor pip ! ye have heard of him befor ; ye must rememb hi tambourin on that dramat midnight , so gloomi - jolli . In outer aspect , pip and dough - boy made a match , like a black poni and a white one , of equal develop , though of dissimilar colour , driven in one eccentr span . but while hapless dough - boy wa by natur dull and torpid in hi intellect , pip , though over tender - heart , wa at bottom veri bright , with that pleasant , genial , jolli bright peculiar to hi tribe ; a tribe , which ever enjoy all holiday and festiv with finer , freer relish than ani other race . for black , the year ' s calendar should show naught but three hundr and sixti - five fourth of juli and new year ' s day . nor smile so , while I write that thi littl black wa brilliant , for even black ha it brillianc ; behold yon lustrou eboni , panel in king ' s cabinet . but pip love life , and all life ' s peaceabl secur ; so that the panic - strike busi in which he had somehow unaccount becom entrap , had most sadli blur hi bright ; though , as ere long will be seen , what wa thu temporarili subdu in him , in the end wa destin to be luridli illumin by strang wild fire , that fictiti show him off to ten time the natur lustr with which in hi nativ tolland counti in connecticut , he had onc enliven mani a fiddler ' s frolic on the green ; and at melodi even - tide , with hi gay ha - ha ! had turn the round horizon into one star - bell tambourin . So , though in the clear air of day , suspend against a blue - vein neck , the pure - water diamond drop will health glow ; yet , when the cun jewel would show you the diamond in it most impress lustr , he lay it against a gloomi ground , and then light it up , not by the sun , but by some unnatur gase . then come out those fieri effulg , infern superb ; then the evil - blaze diamond , onc the divinest symbol of the crystal sky , look like some crown - jewel stolen from the king of hell . but let us to the stori . It came to pass , that in the ambergri affair stubb ' s after - oarsman chanc so to sprain hi hand , as for a time to becom quit maim ; and , temporarili , pip wa put into hi place . the first time stubb lower with him , pip evinc much nervous ; but happili , for that time , escap close contact with the whale ; and therefor came off not altogeth discredit ; though stubb observ him , took care , afterward , to exhort him to cherish hi courag to the utmost , for he might often find it need . now upon the second lower , the boat paddl upon the whale ; and as the fish receiv the dart iron , it gave it customari rap , which happen , in thi instanc , to be right under poor pip ' s seat . the involuntari constern of the moment caus him to leap , paddl in hand , out of the boat ; and in such a way , that part of the slack whale line come against hi chest , he breast it overboard with him , so as to becom entangl in it , when at last plump into the water . that instant the stricken whale start on a fierc run , the line swiftli straighten ; and presto ! poor pip came all foam up to the chock of the boat , remorselessli drag there by the line , which had taken sever turn around hi chest and neck . tashtego stood in the bow . He wa full of the fire of the hunt . He hate pip for a poltroon . snatch the boat - knife from it sheath , he suspend it sharp edg over the line , and turn toward stubb , exclaim interrog , `` cut ? '' meantim pip ' s blue , choke face plainli look , Do , for god ' s sake ! all pass in a flash . In less than half a minut , thi entir thing happen . `` damn him , cut ! '' roar stubb ; and so the whale wa lost and pip wa save . So soon as he recov himself , the poor littl negro wa assail by yell and execr from the crew . tranquilli permit these irregular curs to evapor , stubb then in a plain , busi - like , but still half humor manner , curs pip offici ; and that done , unoffici gave him much wholesom advic . the substanc wa , never jump from a boat , pip , except -- but all the rest wa indefinit , as the soundest advic ever is . now , in gener , stick TO the boat , is your true motto in whale ; but case will sometim happen when leap from the boat , is still better . moreov , as if perceiv at last that if he should give undilut conscienti advic to pip , he would be leav him too wide a margin to jump in for the futur ; stubb suddenli drop all advic , and conclud with a peremptori command , `` stick to the boat , pip , or by the lord , I won ' t pick you up if you jump ; mind that . We can ' t afford to lose whale by the like of you ; a whale would sell for thirti time what you would , pip , in alabama . bear that in mind , and don ' t jump ani more . '' herebi perhap stubb indirectli hint , that though man love hi fellow , yet man is a money - make anim , which propens too often interfer with hi benevol . but we are all in the hand of the god ; and pip jump again . It wa under veri similar circumst to the first perform ; but thi time he did not breast out the line ; and henc , when the whale start to run , pip wa left behind on the sea , like a hurri travel ' s trunk . ala ! stubb wa but too true to hi word . It wa a beauti , bounteou , blue day ; the spangl sea calm and cool , and flatli stretch away , all round , to the horizon , like gold - beater ' s skin hammer out to the extremest . bob up and down in that sea , pip ' s ebon head show like a head of clove . No boat - knife wa lift when he fell so rapidli astern . stubb ' s inexor back wa turn upon him ; and the whale wa wing . In three minut , a whole mile of shoreless ocean wa between pip and stubb . out from the centr of the sea , poor pip turn hi crisp , curl , black head to the sun , anoth lone castaway , though the loftiest and the brightest . now , in calm weather , to swim in the open ocean is as easi to the practis swimmer as to ride in a spring - carriag ashor . but the aw lonesom is intoler . the intens concentr of self in the middl of such a heartless immens , my god ! who can tell it ? mark , how when sailor in a dead calm bath in the open sea -- mark how close they hug their ship and onli coast along her side . but had stubb realli abandon the poor littl negro to hi fate ? No ; he did not mean to , at least . becaus there were two boat in hi wake , and he suppos , no doubt , that they would of cours come up to pip veri quickli , and pick him up ; though , inde , such consider toward oarsmen jeopard through their own timid , is not alway manifest by the hunter in all similar instanc ; and such instanc not unfrequ occur ; almost invari in the fisheri , a coward , so call , is mark with the same ruthless detest peculiar to militari navi and armi . but it so happen , that those boat , without see pip , suddenli spi whale close to them on one side , turn , and gave chase ; and stubb ' s boat wa now so far away , and he and all hi crew so intent upon hi fish , that pip ' s ring horizon began to expand around him miser . By the merest chanc the ship itself at last rescu him ; but from that hour the littl negro went about the deck an idiot ; such , at least , they said he wa . the sea had jeeringli kept hi finit bodi up , but drown the infinit of hi soul . not drown entir , though . rather carri down aliv to wondrou depth , where strang shape of the unwarp primal world glide to and fro befor hi passiv eye ; and the miser - merman , wisdom , reveal hi hoard heap ; and among the joyou , heartless , ever - juvenil etern , pip saw the multitudin , god - omnipres , coral insect , that out of the firmament of water heav the coloss orb . He saw god ' s foot upon the treadl of the loom , and spoke it ; and therefor hi shipmat call him mad . So man ' s insan is heaven ' s sens ; and wander from all mortal reason , man come at last to that celesti thought , which , to reason , is absurd and frantic ; and weal or woe , feel then uncompromis , indiffer as hi god . for the rest , blame not stubb too hardli . the thing is common in that fisheri ; and in the sequel of the narr , it will then be seen what like abandon befel myself . chapter 94 A squeez of the hand . that whale of stubb ' s , so dearli purchas , wa duli brought to the pequod ' s side , where all those cut and hoist oper previous detail , were regularli gone through , even to the bale of the heidelburgh tun , or case . while some were occupi with thi latter duti , other were employ in drag away the larger tub , so soon as fill with the sperm ; and when the proper time arriv , thi same sperm wa care manipul ere go to the tri - work , of which anon . It had cool and crystal to such a degre , that when , with sever other , I sat down befor a larg constantin ' s bath of it , I found it strang concret into lump , here and there roll about in the liquid part . It wa our busi to squeez these lump back into fluid . A sweet and unctuou duti ! No wonder that in old time thi sperm wa such a favourit cosmet . such a clearer ! such a sweeten ! such a soften ! such a delici molifi ! after have my hand in it for onli a few minut , my finger felt like eel , and began , as it were , to serpentin and spiralis . As I sat there at my eas , cross - leg on the deck ; after the bitter exert at the windlass ; under a blue tranquil sky ; the ship under indol sail , and glide so seren along ; as I bath my hand among those soft , gentl globul of infiltr tissu , woven almost within the hour ; as they richli broke to my finger , and discharg all their opul , like fulli ripe grape their wine ; as I snuf up that uncontamin aroma , -- liter and truli , like the smell of spring violet ; I declar to you , that for the time I live as in a muski meadow ; I forgot all about our horribl oath ; in that inexpress sperm , I wash my hand and my heart of it ; I almost began to credit the old paracelsan superstit that sperm is of rare virtu in allay the heat of anger ; while bath in that bath , I felt divin free from all ill - will , or petul , or malic , of ani sort whatsoev . squeez ! squeez ! squeez ! all the morn long ; I squeez that sperm till I myself almost melt into it ; I squeez that sperm till a strang sort of insan came over me ; and I found myself unwittingli squeez my co - labor ' hand in it , mistak their hand for the gentl globul . such an abound , affection , friendli , love feel did thi avoc beget ; that at last I wa continu squeez their hand , and look up into their eye sentiment ; as much as to say , -- Oh ! my dear fellow be , whi should we longer cherish ani social acerb , or know the slightest ill - humor or envi ! come ; let us squeez hand all round ; nay , let us all squeez ourselv into each other ; let us squeez ourselv univers into the veri milk and sperm of kind . would that I could keep squeez that sperm for ever ! for now , sinc by mani prolong , repeat experi , I have perceiv that in all case man must eventu lower , or at least shift , hi conceit of attain felic ; not place it anywher in the intellect or the fanci ; but in the wife , the heart , the bed , the tabl , the saddl , the firesid , the countri ; now that I have perceiv all thi , I am readi to squeez case etern . In thought of the vision of the night , I saw long row of angel in paradis , each with hi hand in a jar of spermaceti . now , while discours of sperm , it behoov to speak of other thing akin to it , in the busi of prepar the sperm whale for the tri - work . first come white - hors , so call , which is obtain from the taper part of the fish , and also from the thicker portion of hi fluke . It is tough with congeal tendon -- a wad of muscl -- but still contain some oil . after be sever from the whale , the white - hors is first cut into portabl oblong ere go to the mincer . they look much like block of berkshir marbl . plum - pud is the term bestow upon certain fragmentari part of the whale ' s flesh , here and there adher to the blanket of blubber , and often particip to a consider degre in it unctuous . It is a most refresh , convivi , beauti object to behold . As it name import , it is of an exceedingli rich , mottl tint , with a bestreak snowi and golden ground , dot with spot of the deepest crimson and purpl . It is plum of rubi , in pictur of citron . spite of reason , it is hard to keep yourself from eat it . I confess , that onc I stole behind the foremast to tri it . It tast someth as I should conceiv a royal cutlet from the thigh of loui le gro might have tast , suppos him to have been kill the first day after the venison season , and that particular venison season contemporari with an unusu fine vintag of the vineyard of champagn . there is anoth substanc , and a veri singular one , which turn up in the cours of thi busi , but which I feel it to be veri puzzl adequ to describ . It is call slobgollion ; an appel origin with the whalemen , and even so is the natur of the substanc . It is an ineff oozi , stringi affair , most frequent found in the tub of sperm , after a prolong squeez , and subsequ decant . I hold it to be the wondrous thin , ruptur membran of the case , coalesc . gurri , so call , is a term properli belong to right whalemen , but sometim incident use by the sperm fishermen . It design the dark , glutin substanc which is scrape off the back of the greenland or right whale , and much of which cover the deck of those inferior soul who hunt that ignobl leviathan . nipper . strictli thi word is not indigen to the whale ' s vocabulari . but as appli by whalemen , it becom so . A whaleman ' s nipper is a short firm strip of tendin stuff cut from the taper part of leviathan ' s tail : it averag an inch in thick , and for the rest , is about the size of the iron part of a hoe . edgewis move along the oili deck , it oper like a leathern squilge ; and by nameless blandish , as of magic , allur along with it all impur . but to learn all about these recondit matter , your best way is at onc to descend into the blubber - room , and have a long talk with it inmat . thi place ha previous been mention as the receptacl for the blanket - piec , when stript and hoist from the whale . when the proper time arriv for cut up it content , thi apart is a scene of terror to all tyro , especi by night . On one side , lit by a dull lantern , a space ha been left clear for the workmen . they gener go in pair , -- a pike - and - gaffman and a spade - man . the whale - pike is similar to a frigat ' s board - weapon of the same name . the gaff is someth like a boat - hook . with hi gaff , the gaffman hook on to a sheet of blubber , and strive to hold it from slip , as the ship pitch and lurch about . meanwhil , the spade - man stand on the sheet itself , perpendicularli chop it into the portabl hors - piec . thi spade is sharp as hone can make it ; the spademan ' s feet are shoeless ; the thing he stand on will sometim irresist slide away from him , like a sledg . If he cut off one of hi own toe , or one of hi assist ' , would you be veri much astonish ? toe are scarc among veteran blubber - room men . chapter 95 the cassock . had you step on board the pequod at a certain junctur of thi post - mortem of the whale ; and had you stroll forward nigh the windlass , pretti sure am I that you would have scan with no small curios a veri strang , enigmat object , which you would have seen there , lie along lengthwis in the lee scupper . not the wondrou cistern in the whale ' s huge head ; not the prodigi of hi unhing lower jaw ; not the miracl of hi symmetr tail ; none of these would so surpris you , as half a glimps of that unaccount cone , -- longer than a kentuckian is tall , nigh a foot in diamet at the base , and jet - black as yojo , the eboni idol of queequeg . and an idol , inde , it is ; or , rather , in old time , it like wa . such an idol as that found in the secret grove of queen maachah in judea ; and for worship which , king asa , her son , did depos her , and destroy the idol , and burnt it for an abomin at the brook kedron , as darkli set forth in the 15th chapter of the first book of king . look at the sailor , call the mincer , who now come along , and assist by two alli , heavili back the grandissimu , as the marin call it , and with bow shoulder , stagger off with it as if he were a grenadi carri a dead comrad from the field . extend it upon the forecastl deck , he now proce cylindr to remov it dark pelt , as an african hunter the pelt of a boa . thi done he turn the pelt insid out , like a pantaloon leg ; give it a good stretch , so as almost to doubl it diamet ; and at last hang it , well spread , in the rig , to dri . ere long , it is taken down ; when remov some three feet of it , toward the point extrem , and then cut two slit for arm - hole at the other end , he lengthwis slip himself bodili into it . the mincer now stand befor you invest in the full canon of hi call . immemori to all hi order , thi investitur alon will adequ protect him , while employ in the peculiar function of hi offic . that offic consist in minc the hors - piec of blubber for the pot ; an oper which is conduct at a curiou wooden hors , plant endwis against the bulwark , and with a capaci tub beneath it , into which the minc piec drop , fast as the sheet from a rapt orat ' s desk . array in decent black ; occupi a conspicu pulpit ; intent on bibl leav ; what a candid for an archbishopr , what a lad for a pope were thi mincer ! * * bibl leav ! bibl leav ! thi is the invari cri from the mate to the mincer . It enjoin him to be care , and cut hi work into as thin slice as possibl , inasmuch as by so do the busi of boil out the oil is much acceler , and it quantiti consider increas , besid perhap improv it in qualiti . chapter 96 the tri - work . besid her hoist boat , an american whaler is outwardli distinguish by her tri - work . she present the curiou anomali of the most solid masonri join with oak and hemp in constitut the complet ship . It is as if from the open field a brick - kiln were transport to her plank . the tri - work are plant between the foremast and mainmast , the most roomi part of the deck . the timber beneath are of a peculiar strength , fit to sustain the weight of an almost solid mass of brick and mortar , some ten feet by eight squar , and five in height . the foundat doe not penetr the deck , but the masonri is firmli secur to the surfac by ponder knee of iron brace it on all side , and screw it down to the timber . On the flank it is case with wood , and at top complet cover by a larg , slope , batten hatchway . remov thi hatch we expos the great tri - pot , two in number , and each of sever barrel ' capac . when not in use , they are kept remark clean . sometim they are polish with soapston and sand , till they shine within like silver punch - bowl . dure the night - watch some cynic old sailor will crawl into them and coil themselv away there for a nap . while employ in polish them -- one man in each pot , side by side -- mani confidenti commun are carri on , over the iron lip . It is a place also for profound mathemat medit . It wa in the left hand tri - pot of the pequod , with the soapston dilig circl round me , that I wa first indirectli struck by the remark fact , that in geometri all bodi glide along the cycloid , my soapston for exampl , will descend from ani point in precis the same time . remov the fire - board from the front of the tri - work , the bare masonri of that side is expos , penetr by the two iron mouth of the furnac , directli underneath the pot . these mouth are fit with heavi door of iron . the intens heat of the fire is prevent from commun itself to the deck , by mean of a shallow reservoir extend under the entir inclos surfac of the work . By a tunnel insert at the rear , thi reservoir is kept replenish with water as fast as it evapor . there are no extern chimney ; they open direct from the rear wall . and here let us go back for a moment . It wa about nine o ' clock at night that the pequod ' s tri - work were first start on thi present voyag . It belong to stubb to overse the busi . `` all readi there ? off hatch , then , and start her . you cook , fire the work . '' thi wa an easi thing , for the carpent had been thrust hi shave into the furnac throughout the passag . here be it said that in a whale voyag the first fire in the tri - work ha to be fed for a time with wood . after that no wood is use , except as a mean of quick ignit to the stapl fuel . In a word , after be tri out , the crisp , shrivel blubber , now call scrap or fritter , still contain consider of it unctuou properti . these fritter feed the flame . like a plethor burn martyr , or a self - consum misanthrop , onc ignit , the whale suppli hi own fuel and burn by hi own bodi . would that he consum hi own smoke ! for hi smoke is horribl to inhal , and inhal it you must , and not onli that , but you must live in it for the time . It ha an unspeak , wild , hindoo odor about it , such as may lurk in the vicin of funer pyre . It smell like the left wing of the day of judgment ; it is an argument for the pit . By midnight the work were in full oper . We were clear from the carcas ; sail had been made ; the wind wa freshen ; the wild ocean dark wa intens . but that dark wa lick up by the fierc flame , which at interv fork forth from the sooti flue , and illumin everi lofti rope in the rig , as with the fame greek fire . the burn ship drove on , as if remorselessli commiss to some veng deed . So the pitch and sulphur - freight brig of the bold hydriot , canari , issu from their midnight harbor , with broad sheet of flame for sail , bore down upon the turkish frigat , and fold them in conflagr . the hatch , remov from the top of the work , now afford a wide hearth in front of them . stand on thi were the tartarean shape of the pagan harpoon , alway the whale - ship ' s stoker . with huge prong pole they pitch hiss mass of blubber into the scald pot , or stir up the fire beneath , till the snaki flame dart , curl , out of the door to catch them by the feet . the smoke roll away in sullen heap . To everi pitch of the ship there wa a pitch of the boil oil , which seem all eager to leap into their face . opposit the mouth of the work , on the further side of the wide wooden hearth , wa the windlass . thi serv for a sea - sofa . here loung the watch , when not otherwis employ , look into the red heat of the fire , till their eye felt scorch in their head . their tawni featur , now all begrim with smoke and sweat , their mat beard , and the contrast barbar brillianc of their teeth , all these were strang reveal in the caprici emblazon of the work . As they narrat to each other their unholi adventur , their tale of terror told in word of mirth ; as their uncivil laughter fork upward out of them , like the flame from the furnac ; as to and fro , in their front , the harpoon wildli gesticul with their huge prong fork and dipper ; as the wind howl on , and the sea leap , and the ship groan and dive , and yet steadfastli shot her red hell further and further into the black of the sea and the night , and scorn champ the white bone in her mouth , and vicious spat round her on all side ; then the rush pequod , freight with savag , and laden with fire , and burn a corps , and plung into that black of dark , seem the materi counterpart of her monomaniac command ' s soul . So seem it to me , as I stood at her helm , and for long hour silent guid the way of thi fire - ship on the sea . wrap , for that interv , in dark myself , I but the better saw the red , the mad , the ghastli of other . the continu sight of the fiend shape befor me , caper half in smoke and half in fire , these at last begat kindr vision in my soul , so soon as I began to yield to that unaccount drowsi which ever would come over me at a midnight helm . but that night , in particular , a strang ( and ever sinc inexplic ) thing occur to me . start from a brief stand sleep , I wa horribl consciou of someth fatal wrong . the jaw - bone tiller smote my side , which lean against it ; in my ear wa the low hum of sail , just begin to shake in the wind ; I thought my eye were open ; I wa half consciou of put my finger to the lid and mechan stretch them still further apart . but , spite of all thi , I could see no compass befor me to steer by ; though it seem but a minut sinc I had been watch the card , by the steadi binnacl lamp illumin it . noth seem befor me but a jet gloom , now and then made ghastli by flash of red . uppermost wa the impress , that whatev swift , rush thing I stood on wa not so much bound to ani haven ahead as rush from all haven astern . A stark , bewild feel , as of death , came over me . convuls my hand grasp the tiller , but with the crazi conceit that the tiller wa , somehow , in some enchant way , invert . My god ! what is the matter with me ? thought I . Lo ! in my brief sleep I had turn myself about , and wa front the ship ' s stern , with my back to her prow and the compass . In an instant I face back , just in time to prevent the vessel from fli up into the wind , and veri probabl capsiz her . how glad and how grate the relief from thi unnatur hallucin of the night , and the fatal conting of be brought by the lee ! look not too long in the face of the fire , O man ! never dream with thi hand on the helm ! turn not thi back to the compass ; accept the first hint of the hitch tiller ; believ not the artifici fire , when it red make all thing look ghastli . To - morrow , in the natur sun , the sky will be bright ; those who glare like devil in the fork flame , the morn will show in far other , at least gentler , relief ; the gloriou , golden , glad sun , the onli true lamp -- all other but liar ! nevertheless the sun hide not virginia ' s dismal swamp , nor rome ' s accurs campagna , nor wide sahara , nor all the million of mile of desert and of grief beneath the moon . the sun hide not the ocean , which is the dark side of thi earth , and which is two third of thi earth . So , therefor , that mortal man who hath more of joy than sorrow in him , that mortal man can not be true -- not true , or undevelop . with book the same . the truest of all men wa the man of sorrow , and the truest of all book is solomon ' s , and ecclesiast is the fine hammer steel of woe . `` all is vaniti . '' all . thi wil world hath not got hold of unchristian solomon ' s wisdom yet . but he who dodg hospit and jail , and walk fast cross graveyard , and would rather talk of opera than hell ; call cowper , young , pascal , rousseau , poor devil all of sick men ; and throughout a care - free lifetim swear by rabelai as pass wise , and therefor jolli ; -- not that man is fit to sit down on tomb - stone , and break the green damp mould with unfathom wondrou solomon . but even solomon , he say , `` the man that wandereth out of the way of understand shall remain `` ( I . E . , even while live ) `` in the congreg of the dead . '' give not thyself up , then , to fire , lest it invert thee , deaden thee ; as for the time it did me . there is a wisdom that is woe ; but there is a woe that is mad . and there is a catskil eagl in some soul that can alik dive down into the blackest gorg , and soar out of them again and becom invis in the sunni space . and even if he for ever fli within the gorg , that gorg is in the mountain ; so that even in hi lowest swoop the mountain eagl is still higher than other bird upon the plain , even though they soar . chapter 97 the lamp . had you descend from the pequod ' s tri - work to the pequod ' s forecastl , where the off duti watch were sleep , for one singl moment you would have almost thought you were stand in some illumin shrine of canon king and counsellor . there they lay in their triangular oaken vault , each marin a chisel mute ; a score of lamp flash upon hi hood eye . In merchantmen , oil for the sailor is more scarc than the milk of queen . To dress in the dark , and eat in the dark , and stumbl in dark to hi pallet , thi is hi usual lot . but the whaleman , as he seek the food of light , so he live in light . He make hi berth an aladdin ' s lamp , and lay him down in it ; so that in the pitchiest night the ship ' s black hull still hous an illumin . see with what entir freedom the whaleman take hi hand of lamp -- often but old bottl and vial , though -- to the copper cooler at the tri - work , and replenish them there , as mug of ale at a vat . He burn , too , the purest of oil , in it unmanufactur , and , therefor , unviti state ; a fluid unknown to solar , lunar , or astral contriv ashor . It is sweet as earli grass butter in april . He goe and hunt for hi oil , so as to be sure of it fresh and genuin , even as the travel on the prairi hunt up hi own supper of game . chapter 98 stow down and clear Up . alreadi ha it been relat how the great leviathan is afar off descri from the mast - head ; how he is chase over the wateri moor , and slaughter in the valley of the deep ; how he is then tow alongsid and behead ; and how ( on the principl which entitl the headsman of old to the garment in which the behead wa kill ) hi great pad surtout becom the properti of hi execution ; how , in due time , he is condemn to the pot , and , like shadrach , meshach , and abednego , hi spermaceti , oil , and bone pass unscath through the fire ; -- but now it remain to conclud the last chapter of thi part of the descript by rehears -- sing , if I may -- the romant proceed of decant off hi oil into the cask and strike them down into the hold , where onc again leviathan return to hi nativ profund , slide along beneath the surfac as befor ; but , ala ! never more to rise and blow . while still warm , the oil , like hot punch , is receiv into the six - barrel cask ; and while , perhap , the ship is pitch and roll thi way and that in the midnight sea , the enorm cask are slew round and head over , end for end , and sometim peril scoot across the slipperi deck , like so mani land slide , till at last man - handl and stay in their cours ; and all round the hoop , rap , rap , go as mani hammer as can play upon them , for now , EX officio , everi sailor is a cooper . At length , when the last pint is cask , and all is cool , then the great hatchway are unseal , the bowel of the ship are thrown open , and down go the cask to their final rest in the sea . thi done , the hatch are replac , and hermet close , like a closet wall up . In the sperm fisheri , thi is perhap one of the most remark incid in all the busi of whale . one day the plank stream with freshet of blood and oil ; on the sacr quarter - deck enorm mass of the whale ' s head are profan pile ; great rusti cask lie about , as in a breweri yard ; the smoke from the tri - work ha besoot all the bulwark ; the marin go about suffus with unctuous ; the entir ship seem great leviathan himself ; while on all hand the din is deafen . but a day or two after , you look about you , and prick your ear in thi self - same ship ; and were it not for the tell - tale boat and tri - work , you would all but swear you trod some silent merchant vessel , with a most scrupul neat command . the unmanufactur sperm oil possess a singularli cleans virtu . thi is the reason whi the deck never look so white as just after what they call an affair of oil . besid , from the ash of the burn scrap of the whale , a potent lye is readili made ; and whenev ani adhes from the back of the whale remain cling to the side , that lye quickli extermin it . hand go dilig along the bulwark , and with bucket of water and rag restor them to their full tidi . the soot is brush from the lower rig . all the numer implement which have been in use are likewis faith cleans and put away . the great hatch is scrub and place upon the tri - work , complet hide the pot ; everi cask is out of sight ; all tackl are coil in unseen nook ; and when by the combin and simultan industri of almost the entir ship ' s compani , the whole of thi conscienti duti is at last conclud , then the crew themselv proceed to their own ablut ; shift themselv from top to toe ; and final issu to the immacul deck , fresh and all aglow , as bridegroom new - leap from out the daintiest holland . now , with elat step , they pace the plank in two and three , and humor discours of parlor , sofa , carpet , and fine cambric ; propos to mat the deck ; think of have hang to the top ; object not to take tea by moonlight on the piazza of the forecastl . To hint to such musk marin of oil , and bone , and blubber , were littl short of audac . they know not the thing you distantli allud to . away , and bring us napkin ! but mark : aloft there , at the three mast head , stand three men intent on spi out more whale , which , if caught , infal will again soil the old oaken furnitur , and drop at least one small greas - spot somewher . ye ; and mani is the time , when , after the severest uninterrupt labor , which know no night ; continu straight through for nineti - six hour ; when from the boat , where they have swell their wrist with all day row on the line , -- they onli step to the deck to carri vast chain , and heav the heavi windlass , and cut and slash , yea , and in their veri sweat to be smoke and burn anew by the combin fire of the equatori sun and the equatori tri - work ; when , on the heel of all thi , they have final bestir themselv to cleans the ship , and make a spotless dairi room of it ; mani is the time the poor fellow , just button the neck of their clean frock , are startl by the cri of `` there she blow ! '' and away they fli to fight anoth whale , and go through the whole weari thing again . Oh ! my friend , but thi is man - kill ! yet thi is life . for hardli have we mortal by long toil extract from thi world ' s vast bulk it small but valuabl sperm ; and then , with weari patienc , cleans ourselv from it defil , and learn to live here in clean tabernacl of the soul ; hardli is thi done , when -- there she blow ! -- the ghost is spout up , and away we sail to fight some other world , and go through young life ' s old routin again . Oh ! the metempsychosi ! Oh ! pythagora , that in bright greec , two thousand year ago , did die , so good , so wise , so mild ; I sail with thee along the peruvian coast last voyag -- and , foolish as I am , taught thee , a green simpl boy , how to splice a rope ! chapter 99 the doubloon . ere now it ha been relat how ahab wa wont to pace hi quarter - deck , take regular turn at either limit , the binnacl and mainmast ; but in the multipl of other thing requir narrat it ha not been ad how that sometim in these walk , when most plung in hi mood , he wa wont to paus in turn at each spot , and stand there strang eye the particular object befor him . when he halt befor the binnacl , with hi glanc fasten on the point needl in the compass , that glanc shot like a javelin with the point intens of hi purpos ; and when resum hi walk he again paus befor the mainmast , then , as the same rivet glanc fasten upon the rivet gold coin there , he still wore the same aspect of nail firm , onli dash with a certain wild long , if not hope . but one morn , turn to pass the doubloon , he seem to be newli attract by the strang figur and inscript stamp on it , as though now for the first time begin to interpret for himself in some monomaniac way whatev signific might lurk in them . and some certain signific lurk in all thing , els all thing are littl worth , and the round world itself but an empti cipher , except to sell by the cartload , as they do hill about boston , to fill up some morass in the milki way . now thi doubloon wa of purest , virgin gold , rake somewher out of the heart of gorgeou hill , whenc , east and west , over golden sand , the head - water of mani a pactolu flow . and though now nail amidst all the rusti of iron bolt and the verdigri of copper spike , yet , untouch and immacul to ani foul , it still preserv it quito glow . nor , though place amongst a ruthless crew and everi hour pass by ruthless hand , and through the livelong night shroud with thick dark which might cover ani pilfer approach , nevertheless everi sunris found the doubloon where the sunset left it last . for it wa set apart and sanctifi to one awe - strike end ; and howev wanton in their sailor way , one and all , the marin rever it as the white whale ' s talisman . sometim they talk it over in the weari watch by night , wonder whose it wa to be at last , and whether he would ever live to spend it . now those nobl golden coin of south america are as medal of the sun and tropic token - piec . here palm , alpaca , and volcano ; sun ' s disk and star ; eclipt , horn - of - plenti , and rich banner wave , are in luxuri profus stamp ; so that the preciou gold seem almost to deriv an ad precious and enhanc glori , by pass through those fanci mint , so spanishli poetic . It so chanc that the doubloon of the pequod wa a most wealthi exampl of these thing . On it round border it bore the letter , republica del ecuador : quito . So thi bright coin came from a countri plant in the middl of the world , and beneath the great equat , and name after it ; and it had been cast midway up the and , in the unwan clime that know no autumn . zone by those letter you saw the like of three and ' summit ; from one a flame ; a tower on anoth ; on the third a crow cock ; while arch over all wa a segment of the partit zodiac , the sign all mark with their usual cabalist , and the keyston sun enter the equinocti point at libra . befor thi equatori coin , ahab , not unobserv by other , wa now paus . `` there ' s someth ever egotist in mountain - top and tower , and all other grand and lofti thing ; look here , -- three peak as proud as lucif . the firm tower , that is ahab ; the volcano , that is ahab ; the courag , the undaunt , and victori fowl , that , too , is ahab ; all are ahab ; and thi round gold is but the imag of the rounder globe , which , like a magician ' s glass , to each and everi man in turn but mirror back hi own mysteri self . great pain , small gain for those who ask the world to solv them ; it can not solv itself . methink now thi coin sun wear a ruddi face ; but see ! aye , he enter the sign of storm , the equinox ! and but six month befor he wheel out of a former equinox at ari ! from storm to storm ! So be it , then . born in throe , ' t is fit that man should live in pain and die in pang ! So be it , then ! here ' s stout stuff for woe to work on . So be it , then . '' `` No fairi finger can have press the gold , but devil ' s claw must have left their mould there sinc yesterday , '' murmur starbuck to himself , lean against the bulwark . `` the old man seem to read belshazzar ' s aw write . I have never mark the coin inspectingli . He goe below ; let me read . A dark valley between three mighti , heaven - abid peak , that almost seem the triniti , in some faint earthli symbol . So in thi vale of death , god gird us round ; and over all our gloom , the sun of righteous still shine a beacon and a hope . If we bend down our eye , the dark vale show her mouldi soil ; but if we lift them , the bright sun meet our glanc half way , to cheer . yet , oh , the great sun is no fixtur ; and if , at midnight , we would fain snatch some sweet solac from him , we gaze for him in vain ! thi coin speak wise , mildli , truli , but still sadli to me . I will quit it , lest truth shake me fals . '' `` there now ' s the old mogul , '' soliloqu stubb by the tri - work , `` he ' s been twig it ; and there goe starbuck from the same , and both with face which I should say might be somewher within nine fathom long . and all from look at a piec of gold , which did I have it now on negro hill or in corlaer ' s hook , I ' d not look at it veri long ere spend it . humph ! in my poor , insignific opinion , I regard thi as queer . I have seen doubloon befor now in my voyag ; your doubloon of old spain , your doubloon of peru , your doubloon of chili , your doubloon of bolivia , your doubloon of popayan ; with plenti of gold moidor and pistol , and joe , and half joe , and quarter joe . what then should there be in thi doubloon of the equat that is so kill wonder ? By golconda ! let me read it onc . halloa ! here ' s sign and wonder truli ! that , now , is what old bowditch in hi epitom call the zodiac , and what my almanac below call ditto . I ' ll get the almanac and as I have heard devil can be rais with dabol ' s arithmet , I ' ll tri my hand at rais a mean out of these queer curvicu here with the massachusett calendar . here ' s the book . let ' s see now . sign and wonder ; and the sun , he ' s alway among ' em . hem , hem , hem ; here they are -- here they go -- all aliv : -- ari , or the ram ; tauru , or the bull and jimimi ! here ' s gemini himself , or the twin . well ; the sun he wheel among ' em . aye , here on the coin he ' s just cross the threshold between two of twelv sit - room all in a ring . book ! you lie there ; the fact is , you book must know your place . you ' ll do to give us the bare word and fact , but we come in to suppli the thought . that ' s my small experi , so far as the massachusett calendar , and bowditch ' s navig , and dabol ' s arithmet go . sign and wonder , eh ? piti if there is noth wonder in sign , and signific in wonder ! there ' s a clue somewher ; wait a bit ; hist -- hark ! By jove , I have it ! look you , doubloon , your zodiac here is the life of man in one round chapter ; and now I ' ll read it off , straight out of the book . come , almanack ! To begin : there ' s ari , or the ram -- lecher dog , he beget us ; then , tauru , or the bull -- he bump us the first thing ; then gemini , or the twin -- that is , virtu and vice ; we tri to reach virtu , when lo ! come cancer the crab , and drag us back ; and here , go from virtu , leo , a roar lion , lie in the path -- he give a few fierc bite and surli dab with hi paw ; we escap , and hail virgo , the virgin ! that ' s our first love ; we marri and think to be happi for aye , when pop come libra , or the scale -- happi weigh and found want ; and while we are veri sad about that , lord ! how we suddenli jump , as scorpio , or the scorpion , sting us in the rear ; we are cure the wound , when whang come the arrow all round ; sagittariu , or the archer , is amus himself . As we pluck out the shaft , stand asid ! here ' s the batter - ram , capricornu , or the goat ; full tilt , he come rush , and headlong we are toss ; when aquariu , or the water - bearer , pour out hi whole delug and drown us ; and to wind up with pisc , or the fish , we sleep . there ' s a sermon now , writ in high heaven , and the sun goe through it everi year , and yet come out of it all aliv and hearti . jollili he , aloft there , wheel through toil and troubl ; and so , alow here , doe jolli stubb . Oh , jolli ' s the word for aye ! adieu , doubloon ! but stop ; here come littl king - post ; dodg round the tri - work , now , and let ' s hear what he ' ll have to say . there ; he ' s befor it ; he ' ll out with someth present . So , so ; he ' s begin . '' `` I see noth here , but a round thing made of gold , and whoever rais a certain whale , thi round thing belong to him . So , what ' s all thi stare been about ? It is worth sixteen dollar , that ' s true ; and at two cent the cigar , that ' s nine hundr and sixti cigar . I won ' t smoke dirti pipe like stubb , but I like cigar , and here ' s nine hundr and sixti of them ; so here goe flask aloft to spi ' em out . '' `` shall I call that wise or foolish , now ; if it be realli wise it ha a foolish look to it ; yet , if it be realli foolish , then ha it a sort of wiseish look to it . but , avast ; here come our old manxman -- the old hears - driver , he must have been , that is , befor he took to the sea . He luff up befor the doubloon ; halloa , and goe round on the other side of the mast ; whi , there ' s a hors - shoe nail on that side ; and now he ' s back again ; what doe that mean ? hark ! he ' s mutter -- voic like an old worn - out coffe - mill . prick ear , and listen ! '' `` If the white whale be rais , it must be in a month and a day , when the sun stand in some one of these sign . I ' ve studi sign , and know their mark ; they were taught me two score year ago , by the old witch in copenhagen . now , in what sign will the sun then be ? the hors - shoe sign ; for there it is , right opposit the gold . and what ' s the hors - shoe sign ? the lion is the hors - shoe sign -- the roar and devour lion . ship , old ship ! my old head shake to think of thee . '' `` there ' s anoth render now ; but still one text . all sort of men in one kind of world , you see . dodg again ! here come queequeg -- all tattoo -- look like the sign of the zodiac himself . what say the cannib ? As I live he ' s compar note ; look at hi thigh bone ; think the sun is in the thigh , or in the calf , or in the bowel , I suppos , as the old women talk surgeon ' s astronomi in the back countri . and by jove , he ' s found someth there in the vicin of hi thigh -- I guess it ' s sagittariu , or the archer . No : he don ' t know what to make of the doubloon ; he take it for an old button off some king ' s trowser . but , asid again ! here come that ghost - devil , fedallah ; tail coil out of sight as usual , oakum in the toe of hi pump as usual . what doe he say , with that look of hi ? Ah , onli make a sign to the sign and bow himself ; there is a sun on the coin -- fire worshipp , depend upon it . Ho ! more and more . thi way come pip -- poor boy ! would he had die , or I ; he ' s half horribl to me . He too ha been watch all of these interpret -- myself includ -- and look now , he come to read , with that unearthli idiot face . stand away again and hear him . hark ! '' `` I look , you look , he look ; we look , ye look , they look . '' `` upon my soul , he ' s been studi murray ' s grammar ! improv hi mind , poor fellow ! but what ' s that he say now -- hist ! '' `` I look , you look , he look ; we look , ye look , they look . '' `` whi , he ' s get it by heart -- hist ! again . '' `` I look , you look , he look ; we look , ye look , they look . '' `` well , that ' s funni . '' `` and I , you , and he ; and we , ye , and they , are all bat ; and I ' m a crow , especi when I stand a ' top of thi pine tree here . caw ! caw ! caw ! caw ! caw ! caw ! ain ' t I a crow ? and where ' s the scare - crow ? there he stand ; two bone stuck into a pair of old trowser , and two more poke into the sleev of an old jacket . '' `` wonder if he mean me ? -- complimentari ! -- poor lad ! -- I could go hang myself . ani way , for the present , I ' ll quit pip ' s vicin . I can stand the rest , for they have plain wit ; but he ' s too crazi - witti for my saniti . So , so , I leav him mutter . '' `` here ' s the ship ' s navel , thi doubloon here , and they are all on fire to unscrew it . but , unscrew your navel , and what ' s the consequ ? then again , if it stay here , that is ugli , too , for when aught ' s nail to the mast it ' s a sign that thing grow desper . Ha , ha ! old ahab ! the white whale ; he ' ll nail ye ! thi is a pine tree . My father , in old tolland counti , cut down a pine tree onc , and found a silver ring grown over in it ; some old darkey ' s wed ring . how did it get there ? and so they ' ll say in the resurrect , when they come to fish up thi old mast , and find a doubloon lodg in it , with bed oyster for the shaggi bark . Oh , the gold ! the preciou , preciou , gold ! the green miser ' ll hoard ye soon ! hish ! hish ! god goe ' mong the world blackberri . cook ! ho , cook ! and cook us ! jenni ! hey , hey , hey , hey , hey , jenni , jenni ! and get your hoe - cake done ! '' chapter 100 leg and arm . the pequod , of nantucket , meet the samuel enderbi , of london . `` ship , ahoy ! hast seen the white whale ? '' So cri ahab , onc more hail a ship show english colour , bear down under the stern . trumpet to mouth , the old man wa stand in hi hoist quarter - boat , hi ivori leg plainli reveal to the stranger captain , who wa carelessli reclin in hi own boat ' s bow . He wa a darkli - tan , burli , good - natur , fine - look man , of sixti or thereabout , dress in a spaciou roundabout , that hung round him in festoon of blue pilot - cloth ; and one empti arm of thi jacket stream behind him like the broider arm of a hussar ' s surcoat . `` hast seen the white whale ! '' `` see you thi ? '' and withdraw it from the fold that had hidden it , he held up a white arm of sperm whale bone , termin in a wooden head like a mallet . `` man my boat ! '' cri ahab , impetu , and toss about the oar near him -- '' stand by to lower ! '' In less than a minut , without quit hi littl craft , he and hi crew were drop to the water , and were soon alongsid of the stranger . but here a curiou difficulti present itself . In the excit of the moment , ahab had forgotten that sinc the loss of hi leg he had never onc step on board of ani vessel at sea but hi own , and then it wa alway by an ingeni and veri handi mechan contriv peculiar to the pequod , and a thing not to be rig and ship in ani other vessel at a moment ' s warn . now , it is no veri easi matter for anybodi -- except those who are almost hourli use to it , like whalemen -- to clamber up a ship ' s side from a boat on the open sea ; for the great swell now lift the boat high up toward the bulwark , and then instantan drop it half way down to the kelson . So , depriv of one leg , and the strang ship of cours be altogeth unsuppli with the kindli invent , ahab now found himself abjectli reduc to a clumsi landsman again ; hopelessli eye the uncertain chang height he could hardli hope to attain . It ha befor been hint , perhap , that everi littl untoward circumst that befel him , and which indirectli sprang from hi luckless mishap , almost invari irrit or exasper ahab . and in the present instanc , all thi wa heighten by the sight of the two offic of the strang ship , lean over the side , by the perpendicular ladder of nail cleet there , and swing toward him a pair of tast - ornament man - rope ; for at first they did not seem to bethink them that a one - leg man must be too much of a crippl to use their sea bannist . but thi awkward onli last a minut , becaus the strang captain , observ at a glanc how affair stood , cri out , `` I see , I see ! -- avast heav there ! jump , boy , and swing over the cut - tackl . '' As good luck would have it , they had had a whale alongsid a day or two previou , and the great tackl were still aloft , and the massiv curv blubber - hook , now clean and dri , wa still attach to the end . thi wa quickli lower to ahab , who at onc comprehend it all , slid hi solitari thigh into the curv of the hook ( it wa like sit in the fluke of an anchor , or the crotch of an appl tree ) , and then give the word , held himself fast , and at the same time also help to hoist hi own weight , by pull hand - over - hand upon one of the run part of the tackl . soon he wa care swung insid the high bulwark , and gentli land upon the capstan head . with hi ivori arm frankli thrust forth in welcom , the other captain advanc , and ahab , put out hi ivori leg , and cross the ivori arm ( like two sword - fish blade ) cri out in hi walru way , `` aye , aye , hearti ! let us shake bone togeth ! -- an arm and a leg ! -- an arm that never can shrink , d ' ye see ; and a leg that never can run . where did ' st thou see the white whale ? -- how long ago ? '' `` the white whale , '' said the englishman , point hi ivori arm toward the east , and take a rueful sight along it , as if it had been a telescop ; `` there I saw him , on the line , last season . '' `` and he took that arm off , did he ? '' ask ahab , now slide down from the capstan , and rest on the englishman ' s shoulder , as he did so . `` aye , he wa the caus of it , at least ; and that leg , too ? '' `` spin me the yarn , '' said ahab ; `` how wa it ? '' `` It wa the first time in my life that I ever cruis on the line , '' began the englishman . `` I wa ignor of the white whale at that time . well , one day we lower for a pod of four or five whale , and my boat fasten to one of them ; a regular circu hors he wa , too , that went mill and mill round so , that my boat ' s crew could onli trim dish , by sit all their stern on the outer gunwal . present up breach from the bottom of the sea a bounc great whale , with a milki - white head and hump , all crow ' feet and wrinkl . '' `` It wa he , it wa he ! '' cri ahab , suddenli let out hi suspend breath . `` and harpoon stick in near hi starboard fin . '' `` aye , aye -- they were mine -- MY iron , '' cri ahab , exultingli -- '' but on ! '' `` give me a chanc , then , '' said the englishman , good - humoredli . `` well , thi old great - grandfath , with the white head and hump , run all afoam into the pod , and goe to snap furious at my fast - line ! `` aye , I see ! -- want to part it ; free the fast - fish -- an old trick -- I know him . '' `` how it wa exactli , '' continu the one - arm command , `` I do not know ; but in bite the line , it got foul of hi teeth , caught there somehow ; but we didn ' t know it then ; so that when we afterward pull on the line , bounc we came plump on to hi hump ! instead of the other whale ' s ; that went off to windward , all fluke . see how matter stood , and what a nobl great whale it wa -- the noblest and biggest I ever saw , sir , in my life -- I resolv to captur him , spite of the boil rage he seem to be in . and think the hap - hazard line would get loos , or the tooth it wa tangl to might draw ( for I have a devil of a boat ' s crew for a pull on a whale - line ) ; see all thi , I say , I jump into my first mate ' s boat -- Mr . mounttop ' s here ( by the way , captain -- mounttop ; mounttop -- the captain ) ; -- as I wa say , I jump into mounttop ' s boat , which , d ' ye see , wa gunwal and gunwal with mine , then ; and snatch the first harpoon , let thi old great - grandfath have it . but , lord , look you , sir -- heart and soul aliv , man -- the next instant , in a jiff , I wa blind as a bat -- both eye out -- all befog and bedeaden with black foam -- the whale ' s tail loom straight up out of it , perpendicular in the air , like a marbl steepl . No use stern all , then ; but as I wa grope at midday , with a blind sun , all crown - jewel ; as I wa grope , I say , after the second iron , to toss it overboard -- down come the tail like a lima tower , cut my boat in two , leav each half in splinter ; and , fluke first , the white hump back through the wreck , as though it wa all chip . We all struck out . To escap hi terribl flail , I seiz hold of my harpoon - pole stick in him , and for a moment clung to that like a suck fish . but a comb sea dash me off , and at the same instant , the fish , take one good dart forward , went down like a flash ; and the barb of that curs second iron tow along near me caught me here `` ( clap hi hand just below hi shoulder ) ; `` ye , caught me just here , I say , and bore me down to hell ' s flame , I wa think ; when , when , all of a sudden , thank the good god , the barb ript it way along the flesh -- clear along the whole length of my arm -- came out nigh my wrist , and up I float ; -- and that gentleman there will tell you the rest ( by the way , captain -- Dr . bunger , ship ' s surgeon : bunger , my lad , -- the captain ) . now , bunger boy , spin your part of the yarn . '' the profession gentleman thu familiarli point out , had been all the time stand near them , with noth specif visibl , to denot hi gentlemanli rank on board . hi face wa an exceedingli round but sober one ; he wa dress in a fade blue woollen frock or shirt , and patch trowser ; and had thu far been divid hi attent between a marlingspik he held in one hand , and a pill - box held in the other , occasion cast a critic glanc at the ivori limb of the two crippl captain . but , at hi superior ' s introduct of him to ahab , he polit bow , and straightway went on to do hi captain ' s bid . `` It wa a shock bad wound , '' began the whale - surgeon ; `` and , take my advic , captain boomer here , stood our old sammi -- '' `` samuel enderbi is the name of my ship , '' interrupt the one - arm captain , address ahab ; `` go on , boy . '' `` stood our old sammi off to the northward , to get out of the blaze hot weather there on the line . but it wa no use -- I did all I could ; sat up with him night ; wa veri sever with him in the matter of diet -- '' `` Oh , veri sever ! '' chime in the patient himself ; then suddenli alter hi voic , `` drink hot rum toddi with me everi night , till he couldn ' t see to put on the bandag ; and send me to bed , half sea over , about three o ' clock in the morn . Oh , ye star ! he sat up with me inde , and wa veri sever in my diet . Oh ! a great watcher , and veri dietet sever , is Dr . bunger . ( bunger , you dog , laugh out ! whi don ' t ye ? you know you ' re a preciou jolli rascal . ) but , heav ahead , boy , I ' d rather be kill by you than kept aliv by ani other man . '' `` My captain , you must have ere thi perceiv , respect sir `` -- said the imperturb godli - look bunger , slightli bow to ahab -- '' is apt to be faceti at time ; he spin us mani clever thing of that sort . but I may as well say -- en passant , as the french remark -- that I myself -- that is to say , jack bunger , late of the reverend clergi -- am a strict total abstin man ; I never drink -- '' `` water ! '' cri the captain ; `` he never drink it ; it ' s a sort of fit to him ; fresh water throw him into the hydrophobia ; but go on -- go on with the arm stori . '' `` ye , I may as well , '' said the surgeon , coolli . `` I wa about observ , sir , befor captain boomer ' s faceti interrupt , that spite of my best and severest endeavor , the wound kept get wors and wors ; the truth wa , sir , it wa as ugli gape wound as surgeon ever saw ; more than two feet and sever inch long . I measur it with the lead line . In short , it grew black ; I knew what wa threaten , and off it came . but I had no hand in ship that ivori arm there ; that thing is against all rule `` -- point at it with the marlingspik -- '' that is the captain ' s work , not mine ; he order the carpent to make it ; he had that club - hammer there put to the end , to knock some one ' s brain out with , I suppos , as he tri mine onc . He fli into diabol passion sometim . Do ye see thi dent , sir `` -- remov hi hat , and brush asid hi hair , and expos a bowl - like caviti in hi skull , but which bore not the slightest scarri trace , or ani token of ever have been a wound -- '' well , the captain there will tell you how that came here ; he know . '' `` No , I don ' t , '' said the captain , `` but hi mother did ; he wa born with it . Oh , you solemn rogu , you -- you bunger ! wa there ever such anoth bunger in the wateri world ? bunger , when you die , you ought to die in pickl , you dog ; you should be preserv to futur age , you rascal . '' `` what becam of the white whale ? '' now cri ahab , who thu far had been impati listen to thi by - play between the two englishmen . `` Oh ! '' cri the one - arm captain , `` oh , ye ! well ; after he sound , we didn ' t see him again for some time ; in fact , as I befor hint , I didn ' t then know what whale it wa that had serv me such a trick , till some time afterward , when come back to the line , we heard about mobi dick -- as some call him -- and then I knew it wa he . '' `` did ' st thou cross hi wake again ? '' `` twice . '' `` but could not fasten ? '' `` didn ' t want to tri to : ain ' t one limb enough ? what should I do without thi other arm ? and I ' m think mobi dick doesn ' t bite so much as he swallow . '' `` well , then , '' interrupt bunger , `` give him your left arm for bait to get the right . Do you know , gentlemen `` -- veri grave and mathemat bow to each captain in success -- '' Do you know , gentlemen , that the digest organ of the whale are so inscrut construct by divin provid , that it is quit imposs for him to complet digest even a man ' s arm ? and he know it too . So that what you take for the white whale ' s malic is onli hi awkward . for he never mean to swallow a singl limb ; he onli think to terrifi by feint . but sometim he is like the old juggl fellow , formerli a patient of mine in ceylon , that make believ swallow jack - knive , onc upon a time let one drop into him in good earnest , and there it stay for a twelvemonth or more ; when I gave him an emet , and he heav it up in small tack , d ' ye see . No possibl way for him to digest that jack - knife , and fulli incorpor it into hi gener bodili system . ye , captain boomer , if you are quick enough about it , and have a mind to pawn one arm for the sake of the privileg of give decent burial to the other , whi in that case the arm is your ; onli let the whale have anoth chanc at you shortli , that ' s all . '' `` No , thank ye , bunger , '' said the english captain , `` he ' s welcom to the arm he ha , sinc I can ' t help it , and didn ' t know him then ; but not to anoth one . No more white whale for me ; I ' ve lower for him onc , and that ha satisfi me . there would be great glori in kill him , I know that ; and there is a ship - load of preciou sperm in him , but , hark ye , he ' s best let alon ; don ' t you think so , captain ? '' -- glanc at the ivori leg . `` He is . but he will still be hunt , for all that . what is best let alon , that accurs thing is not alway what least allur . He ' s all a magnet ! how long sinc thou saw ' st him last ? which way head ? '' `` bless my soul , and curs the foul fiend ' s , '' cri bunger , stoopingli walk round ahab , and like a dog , strang snuf ; `` thi man ' s blood -- bring the thermomet ! -- it ' s at the boil point ! -- hi puls make these plank beat ! -- sir ! '' -- take a lancet from hi pocket , and draw near to ahab ' s arm . `` avast ! '' roar ahab , dash him against the bulwark -- '' man the boat ! which way head ? '' `` good god ! '' cri the english captain , to whom the question wa put . `` what ' s the matter ? He wa head east , I think . -- Is your captain crazi ? '' whisper fedallah . but fedallah , put a finger on hi lip , slid over the bulwark to take the boat ' s steer oar , and ahab , swing the cut - tackl toward him , command the ship ' s sailor to stand by to lower . In a moment he wa stand in the boat ' s stern , and the manilla men were spring to their oar . In vain the english captain hail him . with back to the stranger ship , and face set like a flint to hi own , ahab stood upright till alongsid of the pequod . chapter 101 the decant . ere the english ship fade from sight , be it set down here , that she hail from london , and wa name after the late samuel enderbi , merchant of that citi , the origin of the famou whale hous of enderbi & son ; a hous which in my poor whaleman ' s opinion , come not far behind the unit royal hous of the tudor and bourbon , in point of real histor interest . how long , prior to the year of our lord 1775 , thi great whale hous wa in exist , my numer fish - document do not make plain ; but in that year ( 1775 ) it fit out the first english ship that ever regularli hunt the sperm whale ; though for some score of year previou ( ever sinc 1726 ) our valiant coffin and macey of nantucket and the vineyard had in larg fleet pursu that leviathan , but onli in the north and south atlant : not elsewher . Be it distinctli record here , that the nantucket were the first among mankind to harpoon with civil steel the great sperm whale ; and that for half a centuri they were the onli peopl of the whole globe who so harpoon him . In 1778 , a fine ship , the amelia , fit out for the express purpos , and at the sole charg of the vigor enderbi , boldli round cape horn , and wa the first among the nation to lower a whale - boat of ani sort in the great south sea . the voyag wa a skil and lucki one ; and return to her berth with her hold full of the preciou sperm , the amelia ' s exampl wa soon follow by other ship , english and american , and thu the vast sperm whale ground of the pacif were thrown open . but not content with thi good deed , the indefatig hous again bestir itself : samuel and all hi son -- how mani , their mother onli know -- and under their immedi auspic , and partli , I think , at their expens , the british govern wa induc to send the sloop - of - war rattler on a whale voyag of discoveri into the south sea . command by a naval post - captain , the rattler made a rattl voyag of it , and did some servic ; how much doe not appear . but thi is not all . In 1819 , the same hous fit out a discoveri whale ship of their own , to go on a tast cruis to the remot water of japan . that ship -- well call the `` syren `` -- made a nobl experiment cruis ; and it wa thu that the great japanes whale ground first becam gener known . the syren in thi famou voyag wa command by a captain coffin , a nantucket . all honour to the enderbi , therefor , whose hous , I think , exist to the present day ; though doubtless the origin samuel must long ago have slip hi cabl for the great south sea of the other world . the ship name after him wa worthi of the honour , be a veri fast sailer and a nobl craft everi way . I board her onc at midnight somewher off the patagonian coast , and drank good flip down in the forecastl . It wa a fine gam we had , and they were all trump -- everi soul on board . A short life to them , and a jolli death . and that fine gam I had -- long , veri long after old ahab touch her plank with hi ivori heel -- it mind me of the nobl , solid , saxon hospit of that ship ; and may my parson forget me , and the devil rememb me , if I ever lose sight of it . flip ? did I say we had flip ? ye , and we flip it at the rate of ten gallon the hour ; and when the squall came ( for it ' s squalli off there by patagonia ) , and all hand -- visitor and all -- were call to reef topsail , we were so top - heavi that we had to swing each other aloft in bowlin ; and we ignorantli furl the skirt of our jacket into the sail , so that we hung there , reef fast in the howl gale , a warn exampl to all drunken tar . howev , the mast did not go overboard ; and by and by we scrambl down , so sober , that we had to pass the flip again , though the savag salt spray burst down the forecastl scuttl , rather too much dilut and pickl it to my tast . the beef wa fine -- tough , but with bodi in it . they said it wa bull - beef ; other , that it wa dromedari beef ; but I do not know , for certain , how that wa . they had dumpl too ; small , but substanti , symmetr globular , and indestruct dumpl . I fanci that you could feel them , and roll them about in you after they were swallow . If you stoop over too far forward , you risk their pitch out of you like billiard - ball . the bread -- but that couldn ' t be help ; besid , it wa an anti - scorbut ; in short , the bread contain the onli fresh fare they had . but the forecastl wa not veri light , and it wa veri easi to step over into a dark corner when you ate it . but all in all , take her from truck to helm , consid the dimens of the cook ' s boiler , includ hi own live parchment boiler ; fore and aft , I say , the samuel enderbi wa a jolli ship ; of good fare and plenti ; fine flip and strong ; crack fellow all , and capit from boot heel to hat - band . but whi wa it , think ye , that the samuel enderbi , and some other english whaler I know of -- not all though -- were such famou , hospit ship ; that pass round the beef , and the bread , and the can , and the joke ; and were not soon weari of eat , and drink , and laugh ? I will tell you . the abound good cheer of these english whaler is matter for histor research . nor have I been at all spare of histor whale research , when it ha seem need . the english were preced in the whale fisheri by the holland , zealand , and dane ; from whom they deriv mani term still extant in the fisheri ; and what is yet more , their fat old fashion , touch plenti to eat and drink . for , as a gener thing , the english merchant - ship scrimp her crew ; but not so the english whaler . henc , in the english , thi thing of whale good cheer is not normal and natur , but incident and particular ; and , therefor , must have some special origin , which is here point out , and will be still further elucid . dure my research in the leviathan histori , I stumbl upon an ancient dutch volum , which , by the musti whale smell of it , I knew must be about whaler . the titl wa , `` dan coopman , '' wherefor I conclud that thi must be the invalu memoir of some amsterdam cooper in the fisheri , as everi whale ship must carri it cooper . I wa reinforc in thi opinion by see that it wa the product of one `` fitz swackhamm . '' but my friend Dr . snodhead , a veri learn man , professor of low dutch and high german in the colleg of santa clau and St . pott ' s , to whom I hand the work for translat , give him a box of sperm candl for hi troubl -- thi same Dr . snodhead , so soon as he spi the book , assur me that `` dan coopman `` did not mean `` the cooper , '' but `` the merchant . '' In short , thi ancient and learn low dutch book treat of the commerc of holland ; and , among other subject , contain a veri interest account of it whale fisheri . and in thi chapter it wa , head , `` smeer , '' or `` fat , '' that I found a long detail list of the outfit for the larder and cellar of 180 sail of dutch whalemen ; from which list , as translat by Dr . snodhead , I transcrib the follow : 400 , 000 lb . of beef . 60 , 000 lb . friesland pork . 150 , 000 lb . of stock fish . 550 , 000 lb . of biscuit . 72 , 000 lb . of soft bread . 2 , 800 firkin of butter . 20 , 000 lb . texel & leyden chees . 144 , 000 lb . chees ( probabl an inferior articl ) . 550 anker of geneva . 10 , 800 barrel of beer . most statist tabl are parchingli dri in the read ; not so in the present case , howev , where the reader is flood with whole pipe , barrel , quart , and gill of good gin and good cheer . At the time , I devot three day to the studiou digest of all thi beer , beef , and bread , dure which mani profound thought were incident suggest to me , capabl of a transcendent and platon applic ; and , furthermor , I compil supplementari tabl of my own , touch the probabl quantiti of stock - fish , etc . , consum by everi low dutch harpoon in that ancient greenland and spitzbergen whale fisheri . In the first place , the amount of butter , and texel and leyden chees consum , seem amaz . I imput it , though , to their natur unctuou natur , be render still more unctuou by the natur of their vocat , and especi by their pursu their game in those frigid polar sea , on the veri coast of that esquimaux countri where the convivi nativ pledg each other in bumper of train oil . the quantiti of beer , too , is veri larg , 10 , 800 barrel . now , as those polar fisheri could onli be prosecut in the short summer of that climat , so that the whole cruis of one of these dutch whalemen , includ the short voyag to and from the spitzbergen sea , did not much exceed three month , say , and reckon 30 men to each of their fleet of 180 sail , we have 5 , 400 low dutch seamen in all ; therefor , I say , we have precis two barrel of beer per man , for a twelv week ' allow , exclus of hi fair proport of that 550 anker of gin . now , whether these gin and beer harpoon , so fuddl as one might fanci them to have been , were the right sort of men to stand up in a boat ' s head , and take good aim at fli whale ; thi would seem somewhat improb . yet they did aim at them , and hit them too . but thi wa veri far north , be it rememb , where beer agre well with the constitut ; upon the equat , in our southern fisheri , beer would be apt to make the harpoon sleepi at the mast - head and boozi in hi boat ; and grievou loss might ensu to nantucket and new bedford . but no more ; enough ha been said to show that the old dutch whaler of two or three centuri ago were high liver ; and that the english whaler have not neglect so excel an exampl . for , say they , when cruis in an empti ship , if you can get noth better out of the world , get a good dinner out of it , at least . and thi empti the decant . chapter 102 A bower in the arsacid . hitherto , in descript treat of the sperm whale , I have chiefli dwelt upon the marvel of hi outer aspect ; or separ and in detail upon some few interior structur featur . but to a larg and thorough sweep comprehens of him , it behoov me now to unbutton him still further , and untag the point of hi hose , unbuckl hi garter , and cast loos the hook and the eye of the joint of hi innermost bone , set him befor you in hi ultimatum ; that is to say , in hi uncondit skeleton . but how now , ishmael ? how is it , that you , a mere oarsman in the fisheri , pretend to know aught about the subterranean part of the whale ? did erudit stubb , mount upon your capstan , deliv lectur on the anatomi of the cetacea ; and by help of the windlass , hold up a specimen rib for exhibit ? explain thyself , ishmael . can you land a full - grown whale on your deck for examin , as a cook dish a roast - pig ? sure not . A verit wit have you hitherto been , ishmael ; but have a care how you seiz the privileg of jonah alon ; the privileg of discours upon the joist and beam ; the rafter , ridg - pole , sleeper , and under - pin , make up the frame - work of leviathan ; and belik of the tallow - vat , dairi - room , butteri , and cheeseri in hi bowel . I confess , that sinc jonah , few whalemen have penetr veri far beneath the skin of the adult whale ; nevertheless , I have been bless with an opportun to dissect him in miniatur . In a ship I belong to , a small cub sperm whale wa onc bodili hoist to the deck for hi poke or bag , to make sheath for the barb of the harpoon , and for the head of the lanc . think you I let that chanc go , without use my boat - hatchet and jack - knife , and break the seal and read all the content of that young cub ? and as for my exact knowledg of the bone of the leviathan in their gigant , full grown develop , for that rare knowledg I am indebt to my late royal friend tranquo , king of tranqu , one of the arsacid . for be at tranqu , year ago , when attach to the trade - ship dey of algier , I wa invit to spend part of the arsacidean holiday with the lord of tranqu , at hi retir palm villa at pupella ; a sea - side glen not veri far distant from what our sailor call bamboo - town , hi capit . among mani other fine qualiti , my royal friend tranquo , be gift with a devout love for all matter of barbar vertu , had brought togeth in pupella whatev rare thing the more ingeni of hi peopl could invent ; chiefli carv wood of wonder devic , chisel shell , inlaid spear , costli paddl , aromat cano ; and all these distribut among whatev natur wonder , the wonder - freight , tribut - render wave had cast upon hi shore . chief among these latter wa a great sperm whale , which , after an unusu long rage gale , had been found dead and strand , with hi head against a cocoa - nut tree , whose plumag - like , tuft droop seem hi verdant jet . when the vast bodi had at last been strip of it fathom - deep enfold , and the bone becom dust dri in the sun , then the skeleton wa care transport up the pupella glen , where a grand templ of lordli palm now shelter it . the rib were hung with trophi ; the vertebra were carv with arsacidean annal , in strang hieroglyph ; in the skull , the priest kept up an unextinguish aromat flame , so that the mystic head again sent forth it vapouri spout ; while , suspend from a bough , the terrif lower jaw vibrat over all the devote , like the hair - hung sword that so affright damocl . It wa a wondrou sight . the wood wa green as moss of the ici glen ; the tree stood high and haughti , feel their live sap ; the industri earth beneath wa as a weaver ' s loom , with a gorgeou carpet on it , whereof the ground - vine tendril form the warp and woof , and the live flower the figur . all the tree , with all their laden branch ; all the shrub , and fern , and grass ; the messag - carri air ; all these unceasingli were activ . through the lace of the leav , the great sun seem a fli shuttl weav the unweari verdur . Oh , busi weaver ! unseen weaver ! -- paus ! -- one word ! -- whither flow the fabric ? what palac may it deck ? wherefor all these ceaseless toil ? speak , weaver ! -- stay thi hand ! -- but one singl word with thee ! nay -- the shuttl fli -- the figur float from forth the loom ; the freshet - rush carpet for ever slide away . the weaver - god , he weav ; and by that weav is he deafen , that he hear no mortal voic ; and by that hum , we , too , who look on the loom are deafen ; and onli when we escap it shall we hear the thousand voic that speak through it . for even so it is in all materi factori . the spoken word that are inaud among the fli spindl ; those same word are plainli heard without the wall , burst from the open casement . therebi have villaini been detect . Ah , mortal ! then , be heed ; for so , in all thi din of the great world ' s loom , thi subtlest think may be overheard afar . now , amid the green , life - restless loom of that arsacidean wood , the great , white , worship skeleton lay loung -- a gigant idler ! yet , as the ever - woven verdant warp and woof intermix and hum around him , the mighti idler seem the cun weaver ; himself all woven over with the vine ; everi month assum greener , fresher verdur ; but himself a skeleton . life fold death ; death trellis life ; the grim god wive with youth life , and begat him curli - head glori . now , when with royal tranquo I visit thi wondrou whale , and saw the skull an altar , and the artifici smoke ascend from where the real jet had issu , I marvel that the king should regard a chapel as an object of vertu . He laugh . but more I marvel that the priest should swear that smoki jet of hi wa genuin . To and fro I pace befor thi skeleton -- brush the vine asid -- broke through the rib -- and with a ball of arsacidean twine , wander , eddi long amid it mani wind , shade colonnad and arbour . but soon my line wa out ; and follow it back , I emerg from the open where I enter . I saw no live thing within ; naught wa there but bone . cut me a green measur - rod , I onc more dive within the skeleton . from their arrow - slit in the skull , the priest perceiv me take the altitud of the final rib , `` how now ! '' they shout ; `` dar ' st thou measur thi our god ! that ' s for us . '' `` aye , priest -- well , how long do ye make him , then ? '' but hereupon a fierc contest rose among them , concern feet and inch ; they crack each other ' s sconc with their yard - stick -- the great skull echo -- and seiz that lucki chanc , I quickli conclud my own admeasur . these admeasur I now propos to set befor you . but first , be it record , that , in thi matter , I am not free to utter ani fanci measur I pleas . becaus there are skeleton author you can refer to , to test my accuraci . there is a leviathan museum , they tell me , in hull , england , one of the whale port of that countri , where they have some fine specimen of fin - back and other whale . likewis , I have heard that in the museum of manchest , in new hampshir , they have what the proprietor call `` the onli perfect specimen of a greenland or river whale in the unit state . '' moreov , at a place in yorkshir , england , burton constabl by name , a certain sir clifford constabl ha in hi possess the skeleton of a sperm whale , but of moder size , by no mean of the full - grown magnitud of my friend king tranquo ' s . In both case , the strand whale to which these two skeleton belong , were origin claim by their proprietor upon similar ground . king tranquo seiz hi becaus he want it ; and sir clifford , becaus he wa lord of the seignori of those part . sir clifford ' s whale ha been articul throughout ; so that , like a great chest of drawer , you can open and shut him , in all hi boni caviti -- spread out hi rib like a gigant fan -- and swing all day upon hi lower jaw . lock are to be put upon some of hi trap - door and shutter ; and a footman will show round futur visitor with a bunch of key at hi side . sir clifford think of charg twopenc for a peep at the whisper galleri in the spinal column ; threepenc to hear the echo in the hollow of hi cerebellum ; and sixpenc for the unrival view from hi forehead . the skeleton dimens I shall now proceed to set down are copi verbatim from my right arm , where I had them tattoo ; as in my wild wander at that period , there wa no other secur way of preserv such valuabl statist . but as I wa crowd for space , and wish the other part of my bodi to remain a blank page for a poem I wa then compos -- at least , what untattoo part might remain -- I did not troubl myself with the odd inch ; nor , inde , should inch at all enter into a congeni admeasur of the whale . chapter 103 measur of the whale ' s skeleton . In the first place , I wish to lay befor you a particular , plain statement , touch the live bulk of thi leviathan , whose skeleton we are briefli to exhibit . such a statement may prove use here . accord to a care calcul I have made , and which I partli base upon captain scoresbi ' s estim , of seventi ton for the largest size greenland whale of sixti feet in length ; accord to my care calcul , I say , a sperm whale of the largest magnitud , between eighti - five and nineti feet in length , and someth less than forti feet in it fullest circumfer , such a whale will weigh at least nineti ton ; so that , reckon thirteen men to a ton , he would consider outweigh the combin popul of a whole villag of one thousand one hundr inhabit . think you not then that brain , like yoke cattl , should be put to thi leviathan , to make him at all budg to ani landsman ' s imagin ? have alreadi in variou way put befor you hi skull , spout - hole , jaw , teeth , tail , forehead , fin , and diver other part , I shall now simpli point out what is most interest in the gener bulk of hi unobstruct bone . but as the coloss skull embrac so veri larg a proport of the entir extent of the skeleton ; as it is by far the most complic part ; and as noth is to be repeat concern it in thi chapter , you must not fail to carri it in your mind , or under your arm , as we proceed , otherwis you will not gain a complet notion of the gener structur we are about to view . In length , the sperm whale ' s skeleton at tranqu measur seventi - two feet ; so that when fulli invest and extend in life , he must have been nineti feet long ; for in the whale , the skeleton lose about one fifth in length compar with the live bodi . Of thi seventi - two feet , hi skull and jaw compris some twenti feet , leav some fifti feet of plain back - bone . attach to thi back - bone , for someth less than a third of it length , wa the mighti circular basket of rib which onc enclos hi vital . To me thi vast ivori - rib chest , with the long , unreliev spine , extend far away from it in a straight line , not a littl resembl the hull of a great ship new - laid upon the stock , when onli some twenti of her nake bow - rib are insert , and the keel is otherwis , for the time , but a long , disconnect timber . the rib were ten on a side . the first , to begin from the neck , wa nearli six feet long ; the second , third , and fourth were each success longer , till you came to the climax of the fifth , or one of the middl rib , which measur eight feet and some inch . from that part , the remain rib diminish , till the tenth and last onli span five feet and some inch . In gener thick , they all bore a seemli correspond to their length . the middl rib were the most arch . In some of the arsacid they are use for beam whereon to lay footpath bridg over small stream . In consid these rib , I could not but be struck anew with the circumst , so various repeat in thi book , that the skeleton of the whale is by no mean the mould of hi invest form . the largest of the tranqu rib , one of the middl one , occupi that part of the fish which , in life , is greatest in depth . now , the greatest depth of the invest bodi of thi particular whale must have been at least sixteen feet ; wherea , the correspond rib measur but littl more than eight feet . So that thi rib onli convey half of the true notion of the live magnitud of that part . besid , for some way , where I now saw but a nake spine , all that had been onc wrap round with ton of ad bulk in flesh , muscl , blood , and bowel . still more , for the ampl fin , I here saw but a few disord joint ; and in place of the weighti and majest , but boneless fluke , an utter blank ! how vain and foolish , then , thought I , for timid untravel man to tri to comprehend aright thi wondrou whale , by mere pore over hi dead attenu skeleton , stretch in thi peac wood . No . onli in the heart of quickest peril ; onli when within the eddi of hi angri fluke ; onli on the profound unbound sea , can the fulli invest whale be truli and livingli found out . but the spine . for that , the best way we can consid it is , with a crane , to pile it bone high up on end . No speedi enterpris . but now it ' s done , it look much like pompey ' s pillar . there are forti and odd vertebra in all , which in the skeleton are not lock togeth . they mostli lie like the great knob block on a gothic spire , form solid cours of heavi masonri . the largest , a middl one , is in width someth less than three feet , and in depth more than four . the smallest , where the spine taper away into the tail , is onli two inch in width , and look someth like a white billiard - ball . I wa told that there were still smaller one , but they had been lost by some littl cannib urchin , the priest ' s children , who had stolen them to play marbl with . thu we see how that the spine of even the hugest of live thing taper off at last into simpl child ' s play . chapter 104 the fossil whale . from hi mighti bulk the whale afford a most congeni theme whereon to enlarg , amplifi , and gener expati . would you , you could not compress him . By good right he should onli be treat of in imperi folio . not to tell over again hi furlong from spiracl to tail , and the yard he measur about the waist ; onli think of the gigant involut of hi intestin , where they lie in him like great cabl and hawser coil away in the subterranean orlop - deck of a line - of - battl - ship . sinc I have undertaken to manhandl thi leviathan , it behoov me to approv myself omnisci exhaust in the enterpris ; not overlook the minutest semin germ of hi blood , and spin him out to the uttermost coil of hi bowel . have alreadi describ him in most of hi present habitatori and anatom peculiar , it now remain to magnifi him in an archaeolog , fossilifer , and antediluvian point of view . appli to ani other creatur than the leviathan -- to an ant or a flea -- such portli term might justli be deem unwarrant grandiloqu . but when leviathan is the text , the case is alter . fain am I to stagger to thi empris under the weightiest word of the dictionari . and here be it said , that whenev it ha been conveni to consult one in the cours of these dissert , I have invari use a huge quarto edit of johnson , expressli purchas for that purpos ; becaus that famou lexicograph ' s uncommon person bulk more fit him to compil a lexicon to be use by a whale author like me . one often hear of writer that rise and swell with their subject , though it may seem but an ordinari one . how , then , with me , write of thi leviathan ? unconsci my chirographi expand into placard capit . give me a condor ' s quill ! give me vesuviu ' crater for an inkstand ! friend , hold my arm ! for in the mere act of pen my thought of thi leviathan , they weari me , and make me faint with their outreach comprehens of sweep , as if to includ the whole circl of the scienc , and all the gener of whale , and men , and mastodon , past , present , and to come , with all the revolv panorama of empir on earth , and throughout the whole univers , not exclud it suburb . such , and so magnifi , is the virtu of a larg and liber theme ! We expand to it bulk . To produc a mighti book , you must choos a mighti theme . No great and endur volum can ever be written on the flea , though mani there be who have tri it . ere enter upon the subject of fossil whale , I present my credenti as a geologist , by state that in my miscellan time I have been a stone - mason , and also a great digger of ditch , canal and well , wine - vault , cellar , and cistern of all sort . likewis , by way of preliminari , I desir to remind the reader , that while in the earlier geolog strata there are found the fossil of monster now almost complet extinct ; the subsequ relic discov in what are call the tertiari format seem the connect , or at ani rate intercept link , between the antichron creatur , and those whose remot poster are said to have enter the ark ; all the fossil whale hitherto discov belong to the tertiari period , which is the last preced the superfici format . and though none of them precis answer to ani known speci of the present time , they are yet suffici akin to them in gener respect , to justifi their take rank as cetacean fossil . detach broken fossil of pre - adamit whale , fragment of their bone and skeleton , have within thirti year past , at variou interv , been found at the base of the alp , in lombardi , in franc , in england , in scotland , and in the state of louisiana , mississippi , and alabama . among the more curiou of such remain is part of a skull , which in the year 1779 wa disint in the rue dauphin in pari , a short street open almost directli upon the palac of the tuileri ; and bone disint in excav the great dock of antwerp , in napoleon ' s time . cuvier pronounc these fragment to have belong to some utterli unknown leviathan speci . but by far the most wonder of all cetacean relic wa the almost complet vast skeleton of an extinct monster , found in the year 1842 , on the plantat of judg creagh , in alabama . the awe - stricken credul slave in the vicin took it for the bone of one of the fallen angel . the alabama doctor declar it a huge reptil , and bestow upon it the name of basilosauru . but some specimen bone of it be taken across the sea to owen , the english anatomist , it turn out that thi alleg reptil wa a whale , though of a depart speci . A signific illustr of the fact , again and again repeat in thi book , that the skeleton of the whale furnish but littl clue to the shape of hi fulli invest bodi . So owen rechristen the monster zeuglodon ; and in hi paper read befor the london geolog societi , pronounc it , in substanc , one of the most extraordinari creatur which the mutat of the globe have blot out of exist . when I stand among these mighti leviathan skeleton , skull , tusk , jaw , rib , and vertebra , all character by partial resembl to the exist breed of sea - monster ; but at the same time bear on the other hand similar affin to the annihil antichron leviathan , their incalcul senior ; I am , by a flood , born back to that wondrou period , ere time itself can be said to have begun ; for time began with man . here saturn ' s grey chao roll over me , and I obtain dim , shudder glimps into those polar etern ; when wedg bastion of ice press hard upon what are now the tropic ; and in all the 25 , 000 mile of thi world ' s circumfer , not an inhabit hand ' s breadth of land wa visibl . then the whole world wa the whale ' s ; and , king of creation , he left hi wake along the present line of the and and the himmaleh . who can show a pedigre like leviathan ? ahab ' s harpoon had shed older blood than the pharaoh ' s . methuselah seem a school - boy . I look round to shake hand with shem . I am horror - struck at thi antemosa , unsourc exist of the unspeak terror of the whale , which , have been befor all time , must need exist after all human age are over . but not alon ha thi leviathan left hi pre - adamit trace in the stereotyp plate of natur , and in limeston and marl bequeath hi ancient bust ; but upon egyptian tablet , whose antiqu seem to claim for them an almost fossilifer charact , we find the unmistak print of hi fin . In an apart of the great templ of denderah , some fifti year ago , there wa discov upon the granit ceil a sculptur and paint planispher , abound in centaur , griffin , and dolphin , similar to the grotesqu figur on the celesti globe of the modern . glide among them , old leviathan swam as of yore ; wa there swim in that planispher , centuri befor solomon wa cradl . nor must there be omit anoth strang attest of the antiqu of the whale , in hi own osseou post - diluvian realiti , as set down by the vener john leo , the old barbari travel . `` not far from the sea - side , they have a templ , the rafter and beam of which are made of whale - bone ; for whale of a monstrou size are oftentim cast up dead upon that shore . the common peopl imagin , that by a secret power bestow by god upon the templ , no whale can pass it without immedi death . but the truth of the matter is , that on either side of the templ , there are rock that shoot two mile into the sea , and wound the whale when they light upon ' em . they keep a whale ' s rib of an incred length for a miracl , which lie upon the ground with it convex part uppermost , make an arch , the head of which can not be reach by a man upon a camel ' s back . thi rib ( say john leo ) is said to have layn there a hundr year befor I saw it . their historian affirm , that a prophet who prophesi ' d of mahomet , came from thi templ , and some do not stand to assert , that the prophet jona wa cast forth by the whale at the base of the templ . '' In thi afric templ of the whale I leav you , reader , and if you be a nantucket , and a whaleman , you will silent worship there . chapter 105 doe the whale ' s magnitud diminish ? -- will He perish ? inasmuch , then , as thi leviathan come flounder down upon us from the head - water of the etern , it may be fitli inquir , whether , in the long cours of hi gener , he ha not degener from the origin bulk of hi sire . but upon investig we find , that not onli are the whale of the present day superior in magnitud to those whose fossil remain are found in the tertiari system ( embrac a distinct geolog period prior to man ) , but of the whale found in that tertiari system , those belong to it latter format exceed in size those of it earlier one . Of all the pre - adamit whale yet exhum , by far the largest is the alabama one mention in the last chapter , and that wa less than seventi feet in length in the skeleton . wherea , we have alreadi seen , that the tape - measur give seventi - two feet for the skeleton of a larg size modern whale . and I have heard , on whalemen ' s author , that sperm whale have been captur near a hundr feet long at the time of captur . but may it not be , that while the whale of the present hour are an advanc in magnitud upon those of all previou geolog period ; may it not be , that sinc adam ' s time they have degener ? assuredli , we must conclud so , if we are to credit the account of such gentlemen as plini , and the ancient naturalist gener . for plini tell us of whale that embrac acr of live bulk , and aldrovandu of other which measur eight hundr feet in length -- rope walk and thame tunnel of whale ! and even in the day of bank and soland , cook ' s naturalist , we find a danish member of the academi of scienc set down certain iceland whale ( reydan - siskur , or wrinkl belli ) at one hundr and twenti yard ; that is , three hundr and sixti feet . and laceped , the french naturalist , in hi elabor histori of whale , in the veri begin of hi work ( page 3 ) , set down the right whale at one hundr metr , three hundr and twenti - eight feet . and thi work wa publish so late as A . D . 1825 . but will ani whaleman believ these stori ? No . the whale of to - day is as big as hi ancestor in plini ' s time . and if ever I go where plini is , I , a whaleman ( more than he wa ) , will make bold to tell him so . becaus I can not understand how it is , that while the egyptian mummi that were buri thousand of year befor even plini wa born , do not measur so much in their coffin as a modern kentuckian in hi sock ; and while the cattl and other anim sculptur on the oldest egyptian and nineveh tablet , by the rel proport in which they are drawn , just as plainli prove that the high - bred , stall - fed , prize cattl of smithfield , not onli equal , but far exceed in magnitud the fattest of pharaoh ' s fat kine ; in the face of all thi , I will not admit that of all anim the whale alon should have degener . but still anoth inquiri remain ; one often agit by the more recondit nantucket . whether owe to the almost omnisci look - out at the mast - head of the whaleship , now penetr even through behr ' s strait , and into the remotest secret drawer and locker of the world ; and the thousand harpoon and lanc dart along all continent coast ; the moot point is , whether leviathan can long endur so wide a chase , and so remorseless a havoc ; whether he must not at last be extermin from the water , and the last whale , like the last man , smoke hi last pipe , and then himself evapor in the final puff . compar the hump herd of whale with the hump herd of buffalo , which , not forti year ago , overspread by ten of thousand the prairi of illinoi and missouri , and shook their iron mane and scowl with their thunder - clot brow upon the site of popul river - capit , where now the polit broker sell you land at a dollar an inch ; in such a comparison an irresist argument would seem furnish , to show that the hunt whale can not now escap speedi extinct . but you must look at thi matter in everi light . though so short a period ago -- not a good lifetim -- the censu of the buffalo in illinoi exceed the censu of men now in london , and though at the present day not one horn or hoof of them remain in all that region ; and though the caus of thi wondrou extermin wa the spear of man ; yet the far differ natur of the whale - hunt peremptorili forbid so inglori an end to the leviathan . forti men in one ship hunt the sperm whale for forti - eight month think they have done extrem well , and thank god , if at last they carri home the oil of forti fish . wherea , in the day of the old canadian and indian hunter and trapper of the west , when the far west ( in whose sunset sun still rise ) wa a wilder and a virgin , the same number of moccasin men , for the same number of month , mount on hors instead of sail in ship , would have slain not forti , but forti thousand and more buffalo ; a fact that , if need were , could be statist state . nor , consid aright , doe it seem ani argument in favour of the gradual extinct of the sperm whale , for exampl , that in former year ( the latter part of the last centuri , say ) these leviathan , in small pod , were encount much often than at present , and , in consequ , the voyag were not so prolong , and were also much more remun . becaus , as ha been elsewher notic , those whale , influenc by some view to safeti , now swim the sea in immens caravan , so that to a larg degre the scatter solitari , yoke , and pod , and school of other day are now aggreg into vast but wide separ , unfrequ armi . that is all . and equal fallaci seem the conceit , that becaus the so - call whale - bone whale no longer haunt mani ground in former year abound with them , henc that speci also is declin . for they are onli be driven from promontori to cape ; and if one coast is no longer enliven with their jet , then , be sure , some other and remot strand ha been veri recent startl by the unfamiliar spectacl . furthermor : concern these last mention leviathan , they have two firm fortress , which , in all human probabl , will for ever remain impregn . and as upon the invas of their valley , the frosti swiss have retreat to their mountain ; so , hunt from the savanna and glade of the middl sea , the whale - bone whale can at last resort to their polar citadel , and dive under the ultim glassi barrier and wall there , come up among ici field and floe ; and in a charm circl of everlast decemb , bid defianc to all pursuit from man . but as perhap fifti of these whale - bone whale are harpoon for one cachalot , some philosoph of the forecastl have conclud that thi posit havoc ha alreadi veri serious diminish their battalion . but though for some time past a number of these whale , not less than 13 , 000 , have been annual slain on the nor '- west coast by the american alon ; yet there are consider which render even thi circumst of littl or no account as an oppos argument in thi matter . natur as it is to be somewhat incredul concern the popul of the more enorm creatur of the globe , yet what shall we say to harto , the historian of goa , when he tell us that at one hunt the king of siam took 4 , 000 eleph ; that in those region eleph are numer as drove of cattl in the temper clime . and there seem no reason to doubt that if these eleph , which have now been hunt for thousand of year , by semirami , by poru , by hannib , and by all the success monarch of the east -- if they still surviv there in great number , much more may the great whale outlast all hunt , sinc he ha a pastur to expati in , which is precis twice as larg as all asia , both america , europ and africa , new holland , and all the isl of the sea combin . moreov : we are to consid , that from the presum great longev of whale , their probabl attain the age of a centuri and more , therefor at ani one period of time , sever distinct adult gener must be contemporari . and what that is , we may soon gain some idea of , by imagin all the grave - yard , cemeteri , and famili vault of creation yield up the live bodi of all the men , women , and children who were aliv seventi - five year ago ; and ad thi countless host to the present human popul of the globe . wherefor , for all these thing , we account the whale immort in hi speci , howev perish in hi individu . He swam the sea befor the contin broke water ; he onc swam over the site of the tuileri , and windsor castl , and the kremlin . In noah ' s flood he despis noah ' s ark ; and if ever the world is to be again flood , like the netherland , to kill off it rat , then the etern whale will still surviv , and rear upon the topmost crest of the equatori flood , spout hi froth defianc to the sky . chapter 106 ahab ' s leg . the precipit manner in which captain ahab had quit the samuel enderbi of london , had not been unattend with some small violenc to hi own person . He had light with such energi upon a thwart of hi boat that hi ivori leg had receiv a half - splinter shock . and when after gain hi own deck , and hi own pivot - hole there , he so vehement wheel round with an urgent command to the steersman ( it wa , as ever , someth about hi not steer inflex enough ) ; then , the alreadi shaken ivori receiv such an addit twist and wrench , that though it still remain entir , and to all appear lusti , yet ahab did not deem it entir trustworthi . and , inde , it seem small matter for wonder , that for all hi pervad , mad reckless , ahab did at time give care heed to the condit of that dead bone upon which he partli stood . for it had not been veri long prior to the pequod ' s sail from nantucket , that he had been found one night lie prone upon the ground , and insens ; by some unknown , and seemingli inexplic , unimagin casualti , hi ivori limb have been so violent displac , that it had stake - wise smitten , and all but pierc hi groin ; nor wa it without extrem difficulti that the agon wound wa entir cure . nor , at the time , had it fail to enter hi monomaniac mind , that all the anguish of that then present suffer wa but the direct issu of a former woe ; and he too plainli seem to see , that as the most poison reptil of the marsh perpetu hi kind as inevit as the sweetest songster of the grove ; so , equal with everi felic , all miser event do natur beget their like . yea , more than equal , thought ahab ; sinc both the ancestri and poster of grief go further than the ancestri and poster of joy . for , not to hint of thi : that it is an infer from certain canon teach , that while some natur enjoy here shall have no children born to them for the other world , but , on the contrari , shall be follow by the joy - childless of all hell ' s despair ; wherea , some guilti mortal miseri shall still fertil beget to themselv an etern progress progeni of grief beyond the grave ; not at all to hint of thi , there still seem an inequ in the deeper analysi of the thing . for , thought ahab , while even the highest earthli felic ever have a certain unsignifi petti lurk in them , but , at bottom , all heartwo , a mystic signific , and , in some men , an archangel grandeur ; so do their dilig trace - out not beli the obviou deduct . To trail the genealog of these high mortal miseri , carri us at last among the sourceless primogenitur of the god ; so that , in the face of all the glad , hay - make sun , and soft cymbal , round harvest - moon , we must need give in to thi : that the god themselv are not for ever glad . the ineffac , sad birth - mark in the brow of man , is but the stamp of sorrow in the signer . unwittingli here a secret ha been divulg , which perhap might more properli , in set way , have been disclos befor . with mani other particular concern ahab , alway had it remain a mysteri to some , whi it wa , that for a certain period , both befor and after the sail of the pequod , he had hidden himself away with such grand - lama - like exclus ; and , for that one interv , sought speechless refug , as it were , among the marbl senat of the dead . captain peleg ' s bruit reason for thi thing appear by no mean adequ ; though , inde , as touch all ahab ' s deeper part , everi revel partook more of signific dark than of explanatori light . but , in the end , it all came out ; thi one matter did , at least . that dire mishap wa at the bottom of hi temporari reclus . and not onli thi , but to that ever - contract , drop circl ashor , who , for ani reason , possess the privileg of a less ban approach to him ; to that timid circl the abov hint casualti -- remain , as it did , moodili unaccount for by ahab -- invest itself with terror , not entir underiv from the land of spirit and of wail . So that , through their zeal for him , they had all conspir , so far as in them lay , to muffl up the knowledg of thi thing from other ; and henc it wa , that not till a consider interv had elaps , did it transpir upon the pequod ' s deck . but be all thi as it may ; let the unseen , ambigu synod in the air , or the vindict princ and potent of fire , have to do or not with earthli ahab , yet , in thi present matter of hi leg , he took plain practic procedur ; -- he call the carpent . and when that functionari appear befor him , he bade him without delay set about make a new leg , and direct the mate to see him suppli with all the stud and joist of jaw - ivori ( sperm whale ) which had thu far been accumul on the voyag , in order that a care select of the stoutest , clearest - grain stuff might be secur . thi done , the carpent receiv order to have the leg complet that night ; and to provid all the fit for it , independ of those pertain to the distrust one in use . moreov , the ship ' s forg wa order to be hoist out of it temporari idl in the hold ; and , to acceler the affair , the blacksmith wa command to proceed at onc to the forg of whatev iron contriv might be need . chapter 107 the carpent . seat thyself sultan among the moon of saturn , and take high abstract man alon ; and he seem a wonder , a grandeur , and a woe . but from the same point , take mankind in mass , and for the most part , they seem a mob of unnecessari duplic , both contemporari and hereditari . but most humbl though he wa , and far from furnish an exampl of the high , human abstract ; the pequod ' s carpent wa no duplic ; henc , he now come in person on thi stage . like all sea - go ship carpent , and more especi those belong to whale vessel , he wa , to a certain off - hand , practic extent , alik experienc in numer trade and call collater to hi own ; the carpent ' s pursuit be the ancient and outbranch trunk of all those numer handicraft which more or less have to do with wood as an auxiliari materi . but , besid the applic to him of the gener remark abov , thi carpent of the pequod wa singularli effici in those thousand nameless mechan emerg continu recur in a larg ship , upon a three or four year ' voyag , in uncivil and far - distant sea . for not to speak of hi readi in ordinari duti : -- repair stove boat , sprung spar , reform the shape of clumsi - blade oar , insert bull ' s eye in the deck , or new tree - nail in the side plank , and other miscellan matter more directli pertain to hi special busi ; he wa moreov unhesitatingli expert in all manner of conflict aptitud , both use and caprici . the one grand stage where he enact all hi variou part so manifold , wa hi vice - bench ; a long rude ponder tabl furnish with sever vice , of differ size , and both of iron and of wood . At all time except when whale were alongsid , thi bench wa secur lash athwartship against the rear of the tri - work . A belay pin is found too larg to be easili insert into it hole : the carpent clap it into one of hi ever - readi vice , and straightway file it smaller . A lost land - bird of strang plumag stray on board , and is made a captiv : out of clean shave rod of right - whale bone , and cross - beam of sperm whale ivori , the carpent make a pagoda - look cage for it . An oarsman sprain hi wrist : the carpent concoct a sooth lotion . stubb long for vermillion star to be paint upon the blade of hi everi oar ; screw each oar in hi big vice of wood , the carpent symmetr suppli the constel . A sailor take a fanci to wear shark - bone ear - ring : the carpent drill hi ear . anoth ha the toothach : the carpent out pincer , and clap one hand upon hi bench bid him be seat there ; but the poor fellow unmanag winc under the unconclud oper ; whirl round the handl of hi wooden vice , the carpent sign him to clap hi jaw in that , if he would have him draw the tooth . thu , thi carpent wa prepar at all point , and alik indiffer and without respect in all . teeth he account bit of ivori ; head he deem but top - block ; men themselv he lightli held for capstan . but while now upon so wide a field thu various accomplish and with such liveli of expert in him , too ; all thi would seem to argu some uncommon vivac of intellig . but not precis so . for noth wa thi man more remark , than for a certain imperson stolid as it were ; imperson , I say ; for it so shade off into the surround infinit of thing , that it seem one with the gener stolid discern in the whole visibl world ; which while pauselessli activ in uncount mode , still etern hold it peac , and ignor you , though you dig foundat for cathedr . yet wa thi half - horribl stolid in him , involv , too , as it appear , an all - ramifi heartless ; -- yet wa it oddli dash at time , with an old , crutch - like , antediluvian , wheez humor , not unstreak now and then with a certain grizzl witti ; such as might have serv to pass the time dure the midnight watch on the beard forecastl of noah ' s ark . wa it that thi old carpent had been a life - long wander , whose much roll , to and fro , not onli had gather no moss ; but what is more , had rub off whatev small outward cling might have origin pertain to him ? He wa a stript abstract ; an unfract integr ; uncompromis as a new - born babe ; live without premedit refer to thi world or the next . you might almost say , that thi strang uncompromised in him involv a sort of unintellig ; for in hi numer trade , he did not seem to work so much by reason or by instinct , or simpli becaus he had been tutor to it , or by ani intermixtur of all these , even or uneven ; but mere by a kind of deaf and dumb , spontan liter process . He wa a pure manipul ; hi brain , if he had ever had one , must have earli ooz along into the muscl of hi finger . He wa like one of those unreason but still highli use , multum IN parvo , sheffield contriv , assum the exterior -- though a littl swell -- of a common pocket knife ; but contain , not onli blade of variou size , but also screw - driver , cork - screw , tweezer , awl , pen , ruler , nail - filer , countersink . So , if hi superior want to use the carpent for a screw - driver , all they had to do wa to open that part of him , and the screw wa fast : or if for tweezer , take him up by the leg , and there they were . yet , as previous hint , thi omnitool , open - and - shut carpent , wa , after all , no mere machin of an automaton . If he did not have a common soul in him , he had a subtl someth that somehow anomal did it duti . what that wa , whether essenc of quicksilv , or a few drop of hartshorn , there is no tell . but there it wa ; and there it had abid for now some sixti year or more . and thi it wa , thi same unaccount , cun life - principl in him ; thi it wa , that kept him a great part of the time soliloqu ; but onli like an unreason wheel , which also hummingli soliloqu ; or rather , hi bodi wa a sentri - box and thi soliloqu on guard there , and talk all the time to keep himself awak . chapter 108 ahab and the carpent . the deck -- first night watch . ( carpent stand befor hi vice - bench , and BY the light OF two lantern busili file the ivori joist for the leg , which joist IS firmli fix IN the vice . slab OF ivori , leather strap , pad , screw , and variou tool OF all sort ly about the bench . forward , the red flame OF the forg IS seen , where the blacksmith IS AT work . ) drat the file , and drat the bone ! that is hard which should be soft , and that is soft which should be hard . So we go , who file old jaw and shinbon . let ' s tri anoth . aye , now , thi work better ( sneez ) . halloa , thi bone dust is ( sneez ) -- whi it ' s ( sneez ) -- ye it ' s ( sneez ) -- bless my soul , it won ' t let me speak ! thi is what an old fellow get now for work in dead lumber . saw a live tree , and you don ' t get thi dust ; amput a live bone , and you don ' t get it ( sneez ) . come , come , you old smut , there , bear a hand , and let ' s have that ferul and buckl - screw ; I ' ll be readi for them present . lucki now ( sneez ) there ' s no knee - joint to make ; that might puzzl a littl ; but a mere shinbon -- whi it ' s easi as make hop - pole ; onli I should like to put a good finish on . time , time ; if I but onli had the time , I could turn him out as neat a leg now as ever ( sneez ) scrape to a ladi in a parlor . those buckskin leg and calv of leg I ' ve seen in shop window wouldn ' t compar at all . they soak water , they do ; and of cours get rheumat , and have to be doctor ( sneez ) with wash and lotion , just like live leg . there ; befor I saw it off , now , I must call hi old mogulship , and see whether the length will be all right ; too short , if anyth , I guess . Ha ! that ' s the heel ; we are in luck ; here he come , or it ' s somebodi els , that ' s certain . ahab ( advanc ) ( dure the ensu scene , the carpent continu sneez AT time ) well , manmak ! just in time , sir . If the captain pleas , I will now mark the length . let me measur , sir . measur for a leg ! good . well , it ' s not the first time . about it ! there ; keep thi finger on it . thi is a cogent vice thou hast here , carpent ; let me feel it grip onc . So , so ; it doe pinch some . Oh , sir , it will break bone -- bewar , bewar ! No fear ; I like a good grip ; I like to feel someth in thi slipperi world that can hold , man . what ' s prometheu about there ? -- the blacksmith , I mean -- what ' s he about ? He must be forg the buckl - screw , sir , now . right . It ' s a partnership ; he suppli the muscl part . He make a fierc red flame there ! aye , sir ; he must have the white heat for thi kind of fine work . Um - m . So he must . I do deem it now a most mean thing , that that old greek , prometheu , who made men , they say , should have been a blacksmith , and anim them with fire ; for what ' s made in fire must properli belong to fire ; and so hell ' s probabl . how the soot fli ! thi must be the remaind the greek made the african of . carpent , when he ' s through with that buckl , tell him to forg a pair of steel shoulder - blade ; there ' s a pedlar aboard with a crush pack . sir ? hold ; while prometheu is about it , I ' ll order a complet man after a desir pattern . imprimi , fifti feet high in hi sock ; then , chest model after the thame tunnel ; then , leg with root to ' em , to stay in one place ; then , arm three feet through the wrist ; no heart at all , brass forehead , and about a quarter of an acr of fine brain ; and let me see -- shall I order eye to see outward ? No , but put a sky - light on top of hi head to illumin inward . there , take the order , and away . now , what ' s he speak about , and who ' s he speak to , I should like to know ? shall I keep stand here ? ( asid ) . ' ti but indiffer architectur to make a blind dome ; here ' s one . No , no , no ; I must have a lantern . Ho , ho ! that ' s it , hey ? here are two , sir ; one will serv my turn . what art thou thrust that thief - catcher into my face for , man ? thrust light is wors than present pistol . I thought , sir , that you spoke to carpent . carpent ? whi that ' s -- but no ; -- a veri tidi , and , I may say , an extrem gentlemanlik sort of busi thou art in here , carpent ; -- or would ' st thou rather work in clay ? sir ? -- clay ? clay , sir ? that ' s mud ; we leav clay to ditcher , sir . the fellow ' s impiou ! what art thou sneez about ? bone is rather dusti , sir . take the hint , then ; and when thou art dead , never buri thyself under live peopl ' s nose . sir ? -- oh ! ah ! -- I guess so ; -- ye -- dear ! look ye , carpent , I dare say thou callest thyself a right good workmanlik workman , eh ? well , then , will it speak thoroughli well for thi work , if , when I come to mount thi leg thou makest , I shall nevertheless feel anoth leg in the same ident place with it ; that is , carpent , my old lost leg ; the flesh and blood one , I mean . canst thou not drive that old adam away ? truli , sir , I begin to understand somewhat now . ye , I have heard someth curiou on that score , sir ; how that a dismast man never entir lose the feel of hi old spar , but it will be still prick him at time . may I humbl ask if it be realli so , sir ? It is , man . look , put thi live leg here in the place where mine onc wa ; so , now , here is onli one distinct leg to the eye , yet two to the soul . where thou feelest tingl life ; there , exactli there , there to a hair , do I . Is ' t a riddl ? I should humbl call it a poser , sir . hist , then . how dost thou know that some entir , live , think thing may not be invis and uninterpenetratingli stand precis where thou now standest ; aye , and stand there in thi spite ? In thi most solitari hour , then , dost thou not fear eavesdropp ? hold , don ' t speak ! and if I still feel the smart of my crush leg , though it be now so long dissolv ; then , whi mayst not thou , carpent , feel the fieri pain of hell for ever , and without a bodi ? hah ! good lord ! truli , sir , if it come to that , I must calcul over again ; I think I didn ' t carri a small figur , sir . look ye , pud - head should never grant premis . -- how long befor the leg is done ? perhap an hour , sir . bungl away at it then , and bring it to me ( turn TO GO ) . Oh , life ! here I am , proud as greek god , and yet stand debtor to thi blockhead for a bone to stand on ! curs be that mortal inter - indebted which will not do away with ledger . I would be free as air ; and I ' m down in the whole world ' s book . I am so rich , I could have given bid for bid with the wealthiest praetorian at the auction of the roman empir ( which wa the world ' s ) ; and yet I owe for the flesh in the tongu I brag with . By heaven ! I ' ll get a crucibl , and into it , and dissolv myself down to one small , compendi vertebra . So . carpent ( resum hi work ) . well , well , well ! stubb know him best of all , and stubb alway say he ' s queer ; say noth but that one suffici littl word queer ; he ' s queer , say stubb ; he ' s queer -- queer , queer ; and keep din it into Mr . starbuck all the time -- queer -- sir -- queer , queer , veri queer . and here ' s hi leg ! ye , now that I think of it , here ' s hi bedfellow ! ha a stick of whale ' s jaw - bone for a wife ! and thi is hi leg ; he ' ll stand on thi . what wa that now about one leg stand in three place , and all three place stand in one hell -- how wa that ? Oh ! I don ' t wonder he look so scorn at me ! I ' m a sort of strang - thought sometim , they say ; but that ' s onli haphazard - like . then , a short , littl old bodi like me , should never undertak to wade out into deep water with tall , heron - built captain ; the water chuck you under the chin pretti quick , and there ' s a great cri for life - boat . and here ' s the heron ' s leg ! long and slim , sure enough ! now , for most folk one pair of leg last a lifetim , and that must be becaus they use them merci , as a tender - heart old ladi use her roli - poli old coach - hors . but ahab ; oh he ' s a hard driver . look , driven one leg to death , and spavin the other for life , and now wear out bone leg by the cord . halloa , there , you smut ! bear a hand there with those screw , and let ' s finish it befor the resurrect fellow come a - call with hi horn for all leg , true or fals , as breweri - men go round collect old beer barrel , to fill ' em up again . what a leg thi is ! It look like a real live leg , file down to noth but the core ; he ' ll be stand on thi to - morrow ; he ' ll be take altitud on it . halloa ! I almost forgot the littl oval slate , smooth ivori , where he figur up the latitud . So , so ; chisel , file , and sand - paper , now ! chapter 109 ahab and starbuck in the cabin . accord to usag they were pump the ship next morn ; and lo ! no inconsider oil came up with the water ; the cask below must have sprung a bad leak . much concern wa shown ; and starbuck went down into the cabin to report thi unfavour affair . * * In sperm - whalemen with ani consider quantiti of oil on board , it is a regular semiweekli duti to conduct a hose into the hold , and drench the cask with sea - water ; which afterward , at vari interv , is remov by the ship ' s pump . herebi the cask are sought to be kept dampli tight ; while by the chang charact of the withdrawn water , the marin readili detect ani seriou leakag in the preciou cargo . now , from the south and west the pequod wa draw nigh to formosa and the bashe isl , between which lie one of the tropic outlet from the china water into the pacif . and so starbuck found ahab with a gener chart of the orient archipelago spread befor him ; and anoth separ one repres the long eastern coast of the japanes island -- niphon , matsmai , and sikok . with hi snow - white new ivori leg brace against the screw leg of hi tabl , and with a long prune - hook of a jack - knife in hi hand , the wondrou old man , with hi back to the gangway door , wa wrinkl hi brow , and trace hi old cours again . `` who ' s there ? '' hear the footstep at the door , but not turn round to it . `` On deck ! begon ! '' `` captain ahab mistak ; it is I . the oil in the hold is leak , sir . We must up burton and break out . '' `` Up burton and break out ? now that we are near japan ; heav - to here for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoop ? '' `` either do that , sir , or wast in one day more oil than we may make good in a year . what we come twenti thousand mile to get is worth save , sir . '' `` So it is , so it is ; if we get it . '' `` I wa speak of the oil in the hold , sir . '' `` and I wa not speak or think of that at all . begon ! let it leak ! I ' m all aleak myself . aye ! leak in leak ! not onli full of leaki cask , but those leaki cask are in a leaki ship ; and that ' s a far wors plight than the pequod ' s , man . yet I don ' t stop to plug my leak ; for who can find it in the deep - load hull ; or how hope to plug it , even if found , in thi life ' s howl gale ? starbuck ! I ' ll not have the burton hoist . '' `` what will the owner say , sir ? '' `` let the owner stand on nantucket beach and outyel the typhoon . what care ahab ? owner , owner ? thou art alway prate to me , starbuck , about those miserli owner , as if the owner were my conscienc . but look ye , the onli real owner of anyth is it command ; and hark ye , my conscienc is in thi ship ' s keel . -- On deck ! '' `` captain ahab , '' said the redden mate , move further into the cabin , with a dare so strang respect and cautiou that it almost seem not onli everi way seek to avoid the slightest outward manifest of itself , but within also seem more than half distrust of itself ; `` A better man than I might well pass over in thee what he would quickli enough resent in a younger man ; aye , and in a happier , captain ahab . '' `` devil ! dost thou then so much as dare to critic think of me ? -- On deck ! '' `` nay , sir , not yet ; I do entreat . and I do dare , sir -- to be forbear ! shall we not understand each other better than hitherto , captain ahab ? '' ahab seiz a load musket from the rack ( form part of most south - sea - men ' s cabin furnitur ) , and point it toward starbuck , exclaim : `` there is one god that is lord over the earth , and one captain that is lord over the pequod . -- On deck ! '' for an instant in the flash eye of the mate , and hi fieri cheek , you would have almost thought that he had realli receiv the blaze of the level tube . but , master hi emot , he half calmli rose , and as he quit the cabin , paus for an instant and said : `` thou hast outrag , not insult me , sir ; but for that I ask thee not to bewar of starbuck ; thou wouldst but laugh ; but let ahab bewar of ahab ; bewar of thyself , old man . '' `` He wax brave , but nevertheless obey ; most care braveri that ! '' murmur ahab , as starbuck disappear . `` what ' s that he said -- ahab bewar of ahab -- there ' s someth there ! '' then unconsci use the musket for a staff , with an iron brow he pace to and fro in the littl cabin ; but present the thick plait of hi forehead relax , and return the gun to the rack , he went to the deck . `` thou art but too good a fellow , starbuck , '' he said lowli to the mate ; then rais hi voic to the crew : `` furl the t ' gallant - sail , and close - reef the top - sail , fore and aft ; back the main - yard ; up burton , and break out in the main - hold . '' It were perhap vain to surmis exactli whi it wa , that as respect starbuck , ahab thu act . It may have been a flash of honesti in him ; or mere prudenti polici which , under the circumst , imperi forbad the slightest symptom of open disaffect , howev transient , in the import chief offic of hi ship . howev it wa , hi order were execut ; and the burton were hoist . chapter 110 queequeg in hi coffin . upon search , it wa found that the cask last struck into the hold were perfectli sound , and that the leak must be further off . So , it be calm weather , they broke out deeper and deeper , disturb the slumber of the huge ground - tier butt ; and from that black midnight send those gigant mole into the daylight abov . So deep did they go ; and so ancient , and corrod , and weedi the aspect of the lowermost puncheon , that you almost look next for some mouldi corner - stone cask contain coin of captain noah , with copi of the post placard , vainli warn the infatu old world from the flood . tierc after tierc , too , of water , and bread , and beef , and shook of stave , and iron bundl of hoop , were hoist out , till at last the pile deck were hard to get about ; and the hollow hull echo under foot , as if you were tread over empti catacomb , and reel and roll in the sea like an air - freight demijohn . top - heavi wa the ship as a dinnerless student with all aristotl in hi head . well wa it that the typhoon did not visit them then . now , at thi time it wa that my poor pagan companion , and fast bosom - friend , queequeg , wa seiz with a fever , which brought him nigh to hi endless end . Be it said , that in thi vocat of whale , sinecur are unknown ; digniti and danger go hand in hand ; till you get to be captain , the higher you rise the harder you toil . So with poor queequeg , who , as harpoon , must not onli face all the rage of the live whale , but -- as we have elsewher seen -- mount hi dead back in a roll sea ; and final descend into the gloom of the hold , and bitterli sweat all day in that subterran confin , resolut manhandl the clumsiest cask and see to their stowag . To be short , among whalemen , the harpoon are the holder , so call . poor queequeg ! when the ship wa about half disembowel , you should have stoop over the hatchway , and peer down upon him there ; where , strip to hi woollen drawer , the tattoo savag wa crawl about amid that damp and slime , like a green spot lizard at the bottom of a well . and a well , or an ice - hous , it somehow prove to him , poor pagan ; where , strang to say , for all the heat of hi sweat , he caught a terribl chill which laps into a fever ; and at last , after some day ' suffer , laid him in hi hammock , close to the veri sill of the door of death . how he wast and wast away in those few long - linger day , till there seem but littl left of him but hi frame and tattoo . but as all els in him thin , and hi cheek - bone grew sharper , hi eye , nevertheless , seem grow fuller and fuller ; they becam of a strang soft of lustr ; and mildli but deepli look out at you there from hi sick , a wondrou testimoni to that immort health in him which could not die , or be weaken . and like circl on the water , which , as they grow fainter , expand ; so hi eye seem round and round , like the ring of etern . An awe that can not be name would steal over you as you sat by the side of thi wane savag , and saw as strang thing in hi face , as ani beheld who were bystand when zoroast die . for whatev is truli wondrou and fear in man , never yet wa put into word or book . and the draw near of death , which alik level all , alik impress all with a last revel , which onli an author from the dead could adequ tell . So that -- let us say it again -- no die chalde or greek had higher and holier thought than those , whose mysteri shade you saw creep over the face of poor queequeg , as he quietli lay in hi sway hammock , and the roll sea seem gentli rock him to hi final rest , and the ocean ' s invis flood - tide lift him higher and higher toward hi destin heaven . not a man of the crew but gave him up ; and , as for queequeg himself , what he thought of hi case wa forcibl shown by a curiou favour he ask . He call one to him in the grey morn watch , when the day wa just break , and take hi hand , said that while in nantucket he had chanc to see certain littl cano of dark wood , like the rich war - wood of hi nativ isl ; and upon inquiri , he had learn that all whalemen who die in nantucket , were laid in those same dark cano , and that the fanci of be so laid had much pleas him ; for it wa not unlik the custom of hi own race , who , after embalm a dead warrior , stretch him out in hi cano , and so left him to be float away to the starri archipelago ; for not onli do they believ that the star are isl , but that far beyond all visibl horizon , their own mild , uncontin sea , interflow with the blue heaven ; and so form the white breaker of the milki way . He ad , that he shudder at the thought of be buri in hi hammock , accord to the usual sea - custom , toss like someth vile to the death - devour shark . No : he desir a cano like those of nantucket , all the more congeni to him , be a whaleman , that like a whale - boat these coffin - cano were without a keel ; though that involv but uncertain steer , and much lee - way adown the dim age . now , when thi strang circumst wa made known aft , the carpent wa at onc command to do queequeg ' s bid , whatev it might includ . there wa some heathenish , coffin - colour old lumber aboard , which , upon a long previou voyag , had been cut from the aborigin grove of the lackaday island , and from these dark plank the coffin wa recommend to be made . No sooner wa the carpent appris of the order , than take hi rule , he forthwith with all the indiffer promptitud of hi charact , proceed into the forecastl and took queequeg ' s measur with great accuraci , regularli chalk queequeg ' s person as he shift the rule . `` Ah ! poor fellow ! he ' ll have to die now , '' ejacul the long island sailor . go to hi vice - bench , the carpent for conveni sake and gener refer , now transferringli measur on it the exact length the coffin wa to be , and then made the transfer perman by cut two notch at it extrem . thi done , he marshal the plank and hi tool , and to work . when the last nail wa driven , and the lid duli plane and fit , he lightli shoulder the coffin and went forward with it , inquir whether they were readi for it yet in that direct . overhear the indign but half - humor cri with which the peopl on deck began to drive the coffin away , queequeg , to everi one ' s constern , command that the thing should be instantli brought to him , nor wa there ani deni him ; see that , of all mortal , some die men are the most tyrann ; and certainli , sinc they will shortli troubl us so littl for evermor , the poor fellow ought to be indulg . lean over in hi hammock , queequeg long regard the coffin with an attent eye . He then call for hi harpoon , had the wooden stock drawn from it , and then had the iron part place in the coffin along with one of the paddl of hi boat . all by hi own request , also , biscuit were then rang round the side within : a flask of fresh water wa place at the head , and a small bag of woodi earth scrape up in the hold at the foot ; and a piec of sail - cloth be roll up for a pillow , queequeg now entreat to be lift into hi final bed , that he might make trial of it comfort , if ani it had . He lay without move a few minut , then told one to go to hi bag and bring out hi littl god , yojo . then cross hi arm on hi breast with yojo between , he call for the coffin lid ( hatch he call it ) to be place over him . the head part turn over with a leather hing , and there lay queequeg in hi coffin with littl but hi compos counten in view . `` rarmai `` ( it will do ; it is easi ) , he murmur at last , and sign to be replac in hi hammock . but ere thi wa done , pip , who had been slili hover near by all thi while , drew nigh to him where he lay , and with soft sob , took him by the hand ; in the other , hold hi tambourin . `` poor rover ! will ye never have done with all thi weari rove ? where go ye now ? but if the current carri ye to those sweet antil where the beach are onli beat with water - lili , will ye do one littl errand for me ? seek out one pip , who ' s now been miss long : I think he ' s in those far antil . If ye find him , then comfort him ; for he must be veri sad ; for look ! he ' s left hi tambourin behind ; -- I found it . rig - a - dig , dig , dig ! now , queequeg , die ; and I ' ll beat ye your die march . '' `` I have heard , '' murmur starbuck , gaze down the scuttl , `` that in violent fever , men , all ignor , have talk in ancient tongu ; and that when the mysteri is probe , it turn out alway that in their wholli forgotten childhood those ancient tongu had been realli spoken in their hear by some lofti scholar . So , to my fond faith , poor pip , in thi strang sweet of hi lunaci , bring heavenli voucher of all our heavenli home . where learn he that , but there ? -- hark ! he speak again : but more wildli now . '' `` form two and two ! let ' s make a gener of him ! Ho , where ' s hi harpoon ? lay it across here . -- rig - a - dig , dig , dig ! huzza ! Oh for a game cock now to sit upon hi head and crow ! queequeg die game ! -- mind ye that ; queequeg die game ! -- take ye good heed of that ; queequeg die game ! I say ; game , game , game ! but base littl pip , he die a coward ; die all a ' shiver ; -- out upon pip ! hark ye ; if ye find pip , tell all the antil he ' s a runaway ; a coward , a coward , a coward ! tell them he jump from a whale - boat ! I ' d never beat my tambourin over base pip , and hail him gener , if he were onc more die here . No , no ! shame upon all coward -- shame upon them ! let ' em go drown like pip , that jump from a whale - boat . shame ! shame ! '' dure all thi , queequeg lay with close eye , as if in a dream . pip wa led away , and the sick man wa replac in hi hammock . but now that he had appar made everi prepar for death ; now that hi coffin wa prove a good fit , queequeg suddenli ralli ; soon there seem no need of the carpent ' s box : and thereupon , when some express their delight surpris , he , in substanc , said , that the caus of hi sudden convalesc wa thi ; -- at a critic moment , he had just recal a littl duti ashor , which he wa leav undon ; and therefor had chang hi mind about die : he could not die yet , he aver . they ask him , then , whether to live or die wa a matter of hi own sovereign will and pleasur . He answer , certainli . In a word , it wa queequeg ' s conceit , that if a man made up hi mind to live , mere sick could not kill him : noth but a whale , or a gale , or some violent , ungovern , unintellig destroy of that sort . now , there is thi noteworthi differ between savag and civil ; that while a sick , civil man may be six month convalesc , gener speak , a sick savag is almost half - well again in a day . So , in good time my queequeg gain strength ; and at length after sit on the windlass for a few indol day ( but eat with a vigor appetit ) he suddenli leap to hi feet , threw out hi arm and leg , gave himself a good stretch , yawn a littl bit , and then spring into the head of hi hoist boat , and pois a harpoon , pronounc himself fit for a fight . with a wild whimsi , he now use hi coffin for a sea - chest ; and empti into it hi canva bag of cloth , set them in order there . mani spare hour he spent , in carv the lid with all manner of grotesqu figur and draw ; and it seem that herebi he wa strive , in hi rude way , to copi part of the twist tattoo on hi bodi . and thi tattoo had been the work of a depart prophet and seer of hi island , who , by those hieroglyph mark , had written out on hi bodi a complet theori of the heaven and the earth , and a mystic treatis on the art of attain truth ; so that queequeg in hi own proper person wa a riddl to unfold ; a wondrou work in one volum ; but whose mysteri not even himself could read , though hi own live heart beat against them ; and these mysteri were therefor destin in the end to moulder away with the live parchment whereon they were inscrib , and so be unsolv to the last . and thi thought it must have been which suggest to ahab that wild exclam of hi , when one morn turn away from survey poor queequeg -- '' Oh , devilish tantal of the god ! '' chapter 111 the pacif . when glide by the bashe isl we emerg at last upon the great south sea ; were it not for other thing , I could have greet my dear pacif with uncount thank , for now the long supplic of my youth wa answer ; that seren ocean roll eastward from me a thousand leagu of blue . there is , one know not what sweet mysteri about thi sea , whose gentli aw stir seem to speak of some hidden soul beneath ; like those fabl undul of the ephesian sod over the buri evangelist St . john . and meet it is , that over these sea - pastur , wide - roll wateri prairi and potter ' field of all four contin , the wave should rise and fall , and ebb and flow unceasingli ; for here , million of mix shade and shadow , drown dream , somnambul , reveri ; all that we call live and soul , lie dream , dream , still ; toss like slumber in their bed ; the ever - roll wave but made so by their restless . To ani medit magian rover , thi seren pacif , onc beheld , must ever after be the sea of hi adopt . It roll the midmost water of the world , the indian ocean and atlant be but it arm . the same wave wash the mole of the new - built californian town , but yesterday plant by the recentest race of men , and lave the fade but still gorgeou skirt of asiat land , older than abraham ; while all between float milki - way of coral isl , and low - lie , endless , unknown archipelago , and impenetr japan . thu thi mysteri , divin pacif zone the world ' s whole bulk about ; make all coast one bay to it ; seem the tide - beat heart of earth . lift by those etern swell , you need must own the seduct god , bow your head to pan . but few thought of pan stir ahab ' s brain , as stand like an iron statu at hi accustom place besid the mizen rig , with one nostril he unthinkingli snuf the sugari musk from the bashe isl ( in whose sweet wood mild lover must be walk ) , and with the other conscious inhal the salt breath of the new found sea ; that sea in which the hate white whale must even then be swim . launch at length upon these almost final water , and glide toward the japanes cruis - ground , the old man ' s purpos intensifi itself . hi firm lip met like the lip of a vice ; the delta of hi forehead ' s vein swell like overladen brook ; in hi veri sleep , hi ring cri ran through the vault hull , `` stern all ! the white whale spout thick blood ! '' chapter 112 the blacksmith . avail himself of the mild , summer - cool weather that now reign in these latitud , and in prepar for the peculiarli activ pursuit shortli to be anticip , perth , the begrim , blister old blacksmith , had not remov hi portabl forg to the hold again , after conclud hi contributori work for ahab ' s leg , but still retain it on deck , fast lash to ringbolt by the foremast ; be now almost incessantli invok by the headsmen , and harpoon , and bowsmen to do some littl job for them ; alter , or repair , or new shape their variou weapon and boat furnitur . often he would be surround by an eager circl , all wait to be serv ; hold boat - spade , pike - head , harpoon , and lanc , and jealous watch hi everi sooti movement , as he toil . nevertheless , thi old man ' s wa a patient hammer wield by a patient arm . No murmur , no impati , no petul did come from him . silent , slow , and solemn ; bow over still further hi chronic broken back , he toil away , as if toil were life itself , and the heavi beat of hi hammer the heavi beat of hi heart . and so it wa . -- most miser ! A peculiar walk in thi old man , a certain slight but pain appear yaw in hi gait , had at an earli period of the voyag excit the curios of the marin . and to the importun of their persist question he had final given in ; and so it came to pass that everi one now knew the shame stori of hi wretch fate . belat , and not innoc , one bitter winter ' s midnight , on the road run between two countri town , the blacksmith half - stupidli felt the deadli numb steal over him , and sought refug in a lean , dilapid barn . the issu wa , the loss of the extrem of both feet . out of thi revel , part by part , at last came out the four act of the glad , and the one long , and as yet uncatastrophi fifth act of the grief of hi life ' s drama . He wa an old man , who , at the age of nearli sixti , had postponedli encount that thing in sorrow ' s technic call ruin . He had been an artisan of fame excel , and with plenti to do ; own a hous and garden ; embrac a youth , daughter - like , love wife , and three blith , ruddi children ; everi sunday went to a cheer - look church , plant in a grove . but one night , under cover of dark , and further conceal in a most cun disguis , a desper burglar slid into hi happi home , and rob them all of everyth . and darker yet to tell , the blacksmith himself did ignorantli conduct thi burglar into hi famili ' s heart . It wa the bottl conjuror ! upon the open of that fatal cork , forth flew the fiend , and shrivel up hi home . now , for prudent , most wise , and econom reason , the blacksmith ' s shop wa in the basement of hi dwell , but with a separ entranc to it ; so that alway had the young and love healthi wife listen with no unhappi nervous , but with vigor pleasur , to the stout ring of her young - arm old husband ' s hammer ; whose reverber , muffl by pass through the floor and wall , came up to her , not unsweetli , in her nurseri ; and so , to stout labor ' s iron lullabi , the blacksmith ' s infant were rock to slumber . Oh , woe on woe ! Oh , death , whi canst thou not sometim be time ? hadst thou taken thi old blacksmith to thyself ere hi full ruin came upon him , then had the young widow had a delici grief , and her orphan a truli vener , legendari sire to dream of in their after year ; and all of them a care - kill compet . but death pluck down some virtuou elder brother , on whose whistl daili toil sole hung the respons of some other famili , and left the wors than useless old man stand , till the hideou rot of life should make him easier to harvest . whi tell the whole ? the blow of the basement hammer everi day grew more and more between ; and each blow everi day grew fainter than the last ; the wife sat frozen at the window , with tearless eye , glitteringli gaze into the weep face of her children ; the bellow fell ; the forg choke up with cinder ; the hous wa sold ; the mother dive down into the long church - yard grass ; her children twice follow her thither ; and the houseless , familyless old man stagger off a vagabond in crape ; hi everi woe unreverenc ; hi grey head a scorn to flaxen curl ! death seem the onli desir sequel for a career like thi ; but death is onli a launch into the region of the strang untri ; it is but the first salut to the possibl of the immens remot , the wild , the wateri , the unshor ; therefor , to the death - long eye of such men , who still have left in them some interior compunct against suicid , doe the all - contribut and all - recept ocean alluringli spread forth hi whole plain of unimagin , take terror , and wonder , new - life adventur ; and from the heart of infinit pacif , the thousand mermaid sing to them -- '' come hither , broken - heart ; here is anoth life without the guilt of intermedi death ; here are wonder supernatur , without die for them . come hither ! buri thyself in a life which , to your now equal abhor and abhor , land world , is more oblivi than death . come hither ! put up thi graveston , too , within the churchyard , and come hither , till we marri thee ! '' hearken to these voic , east and west , by earli sunris , and by fall of eve , the blacksmith ' s soul respond , aye , I come ! and so perth went a - whale . chapter 113 the forg . with mat beard , and swath in a bristl shark - skin apron , about mid - day , perth wa stand between hi forg and anvil , the latter place upon an iron - wood log , with one hand hold a pike - head in the coal , and with the other at hi forg ' s lung , when captain ahab came along , carri in hi hand a small rusti - look leathern bag . while yet a littl distanc from the forg , moodi ahab paus ; till at last , perth , withdraw hi iron from the fire , began hammer it upon the anvil -- the red mass send off the spark in thick hover flight , some of which flew close to ahab . `` are these thi mother carey ' s chicken , perth ? they are alway fli in thi wake ; bird of good omen , too , but not to all ; -- look here , they burn ; but thou -- thou liv ' st among them without a scorch . '' `` becaus I am scorch all over , captain ahab , '' answer perth , rest for a moment on hi hammer ; `` I am past scorch ; not easili can ' st thou scorch a scar . '' `` well , well ; no more . thi shrunk voic sound too calmli , sane woeful to me . In no paradis myself , I am impati of all miseri in other that is not mad . thou should ' st go mad , blacksmith ; say , whi dost thou not go mad ? how can ' st thou endur without be mad ? Do the heaven yet hate thee , that thou can ' st not go mad ? -- what wert thou make there ? '' `` weld an old pike - head , sir ; there were seam and dent in it . '' `` and can ' st thou make it all smooth again , blacksmith , after such hard usag as it had ? '' `` I think so , sir . '' `` and I suppos thou can ' st smooth almost ani seam and dent ; never mind how hard the metal , blacksmith ? '' `` aye , sir , I think I can ; all seam and dent but one . '' `` look ye here , then , '' cri ahab , passion advanc , and lean with both hand on perth ' s shoulder ; `` look ye here -- here -- can ye smooth out a seam like thi , blacksmith , '' sweep one hand across hi rib brow ; `` if thou could ' st , blacksmith , glad enough would I lay my head upon thi anvil , and feel thi heaviest hammer between my eye . answer ! can ' st thou smooth thi seam ? '' `` Oh ! that is the one , sir ! said I not all seam and dent but one ? '' `` aye , blacksmith , it is the one ; aye , man , it is unsmooth ; for though thou onli see ' st it here in my flesh , it ha work down into the bone of my skull -- that is all wrinkl ! but , away with child ' s play ; no more gaff and pike to - day . look ye here ! '' jingl the leathern bag , as if it were full of gold coin . `` I , too , want a harpoon made ; one that a thousand yoke of fiend could not part , perth ; someth that will stick in a whale like hi own fin - bone . there ' s the stuff , '' fling the pouch upon the anvil . `` look ye , blacksmith , these are the gather nail - stubb of the steel shoe of race hors . '' `` hors - shoe stubb , sir ? whi , captain ahab , thou hast here , then , the best and stubbornest stuff we blacksmith ever work . '' `` I know it , old man ; these stubb will weld togeth like glue from the melt bone of murder . quick ! forg me the harpoon . and forg me first , twelv rod for it shank ; then wind , and twist , and hammer these twelv togeth like the yarn and strand of a tow - line . quick ! I ' ll blow the fire . '' when at last the twelv rod were made , ahab tri them , one by one , by spiral them , with hi own hand , round a long , heavi iron bolt . `` A flaw ! '' reject the last one . `` work that over again , perth . '' thi done , perth wa about to begin weld the twelv into one , when ahab stay hi hand , and said he would weld hi own iron . As , then , with regular , gasp hem , he hammer on the anvil , perth pass to him the glow rod , one after the other , and the hard press forg shoot up it intens straight flame , the parse pass silent , and bow over hi head toward the fire , seem invok some curs or some bless on the toil . but , as ahab look up , he slid asid . `` what ' s that bunch of lucif dodg about there for ? '' mutter stubb , look on from the forecastl . `` that parse smell fire like a fuse ; and smell of it himself , like a hot musket ' s powder - pan . '' At last the shank , in one complet rod , receiv it final heat ; and as perth , to temper it , plung it all hiss into the cask of water near by , the scald steam shot up into ahab ' s bent face . `` would ' st thou brand me , perth ? '' winc for a moment with the pain ; `` have I been but forg my own brand - iron , then ? '' `` pray god , not that ; yet I fear someth , captain ahab . Is not thi harpoon for the white whale ? '' `` for the white fiend ! but now for the barb ; thou must make them thyself , man . here are my razor -- the best of steel ; here , and make the barb sharp as the needl - sleet of the ici sea . '' for a moment , the old blacksmith eye the razor as though he would fain not use them . `` take them , man , I have no need for them ; for I now neither shave , sup , nor pray till -- but here -- to work ! '' fashion at last into an arrowi shape , and weld by perth to the shank , the steel soon point the end of the iron ; and as the blacksmith wa about give the barb their final heat , prior to temper them , he cri to ahab to place the water - cask near . `` No , no -- no water for that ; I want it of the true death - temper . ahoy , there ! tashtego , queequeg , daggoo ! what say ye , pagan ! will ye give me as much blood as will cover thi barb ? '' hold it high up . A cluster of dark nod repli , ye . three punctur were made in the heathen flesh , and the white whale ' s barb were then temper . `` ego non baptizo te in nomin patri , sed in nomin diaboli ! '' deliri howl ahab , as the malign iron scorchingli devour the baptism blood . now , muster the spare pole from below , and select one of hickori , with the bark still invest it , ahab fit the end to the socket of the iron . A coil of new tow - line wa then unwound , and some fathom of it taken to the windlass , and stretch to a great tension . press hi foot upon it , till the rope hum like a harp - string , then eagerli bend over it , and see no strand , ahab exclaim , `` good ! and now for the seiz . '' At one extrem the rope wa unstrand , and the separ spread yarn were all braid and woven round the socket of the harpoon ; the pole wa then driven hard up into the socket ; from the lower end the rope wa trace half - way along the pole ' s length , and firmli secur so , with intertwist of twine . thi done , pole , iron , and rope -- like the three fate -- remain insepar , and ahab moodili stalk away with the weapon ; the sound of hi ivori leg , and the sound of the hickori pole , both hollowli ring along everi plank . but ere he enter hi cabin , light , unnatur , half - banter , yet most piteou sound wa heard . Oh , pip ! thi wretch laugh , thi idl but unrest eye ; all thi strang mummeri not unmeaningli blend with the black tragedi of the melancholi ship , and mock it ! chapter 114 the gilder . penetr further and further into the heart of the japanes cruis ground , the pequod wa soon all astir in the fisheri . often , in mild , pleasant weather , for twelv , fifteen , eighteen , and twenti hour on the stretch , they were engag in the boat , steadili pull , or sail , or paddl after the whale , or for an interlud of sixti or seventi minut calmli await their upris ; though with but small success for their pain . At such time , under an abat sun ; afloat all day upon smooth , slow heav swell ; seat in hi boat , light as a birch cano ; and so sociabl mix with the soft wave themselv , that like hearth - stone cat they purr against the gunwal ; these are the time of dreami quietud , when behold the tranquil beauti and brillianc of the ocean ' s skin , one forget the tiger heart that pant beneath it ; and would not willingli rememb , that thi velvet paw but conceal a remorseless fang . these are the time , when in hi whale - boat the rover softli feel a certain filial , confid , land - like feel toward the sea ; that he regard it as so much floweri earth ; and the distant ship reveal onli the top of her mast , seem struggl forward , not through high roll wave , but through the tall grass of a roll prairi : as when the western emigr ' hors onli show their erect ear , while their hidden bodi wide wade through the amaz verdur . the long - drawn virgin vale ; the mild blue hill - side ; as over these there steal the hush , the hum ; you almost swear that play - weari children lie sleep in these solitud , in some glad may - time , when the flower of the wood are pluck . and all thi mix with your most mystic mood ; so that fact and fanci , half - way meet , interpenetr , and form one seamless whole . nor did such sooth scene , howev temporari , fail of at least as temporari an effect on ahab . but if these secret golden key did seem to open in him hi own secret golden treasuri , yet did hi breath upon them prove but tarnish . Oh , grassi glade ! oh , ever vernal endless landscap in the soul ; in ye , -- though long parch by the dead drought of the earthi life , -- in ye , men yet may roll , like young hors in new morn clover ; and for some few fleet moment , feel the cool dew of the life immort on them . would to god these bless calm would last . but the mingl , mingl thread of life are woven by warp and woof : calm cross by storm , a storm for everi calm . there is no steadi unretrac progress in thi life ; we do not advanc through fix gradat , and at the last one paus : -- through infanc ' s unconsci spell , boyhood ' s thoughtless faith , adolesc ' doubt ( the common doom ) , then sceptic , then disbelief , rest at last in manhood ' s ponder repos of If . but onc gone through , we trace the round again ; and are infant , boy , and men , and if etern . where lie the final harbor , whenc we unmoor no more ? In what rapt ether sail the world , of which the weariest will never weari ? where is the foundl ' s father hidden ? our soul are like those orphan whose unwed mother die in bear them : the secret of our patern lie in their grave , and we must there to learn it . and that same day , too , gaze far down from hi boat ' s side into that same golden sea , starbuck lowli murmur : -- `` loveli unfathom , as ever lover saw in hi young bride ' s eye ! -- tell me not of thi teeth - tier shark , and thi kidnap cannib way . let faith oust fact ; let fanci oust memori ; I look deep down and do believ . '' and stubb , fish - like , with sparkl scale , leap up in that same golden light : -- `` I am stubb , and stubb ha hi histori ; but here stubb take oath that he ha alway been jolli ! '' chapter 115 the pequod meet the bachelor . and jolli enough were the sight and the sound that came bear down befor the wind , some few week after ahab ' s harpoon had been weld . It wa a nantucket ship , the bachelor , which had just wedg in her last cask of oil , and bolt down her burst hatch ; and now , in glad holiday apparel , wa joyous , though somewhat vain - glorious , sail round among the wide - separ ship on the ground , previou to point her prow for home . the three men at her mast - head wore long streamer of narrow red bunt at their hat ; from the stern , a whale - boat wa suspend , bottom down ; and hang captiv from the bowsprit wa seen the long lower jaw of the last whale they had slain . signal , ensign , and jack of all colour were fli from her rig , on everi side . sideway lash in each of her three basket top were two barrel of sperm ; abov which , in her top - mast cross - tree , you saw slender breaker of the same preciou fluid ; and nail to her main truck wa a brazen lamp . As wa afterward learn , the bachelor had met with the most surpris success ; all the more wonder , for that while cruis in the same sea numer other vessel had gone entir month without secur a singl fish . not onli had barrel of beef and bread been given away to make room for the far more valuabl sperm , but addit supplement cask had been barter for , from the ship she had met ; and these were stow along the deck , and in the captain ' s and offic ' state - room . even the cabin tabl itself had been knock into kindl - wood ; and the cabin mess dine off the broad head of an oil - butt , lash down to the floor for a centrepiec . In the forecastl , the sailor had actual caulk and pitch their chest , and fill them ; it wa humor ad , that the cook had clap a head on hi largest boiler , and fill it ; that the steward had plug hi spare coffe - pot and fill it ; that the harpoon had head the socket of their iron and fill them ; that inde everyth wa fill with sperm , except the captain ' s pantaloon pocket , and those he reserv to thrust hi hand into , in self - complac testimoni of hi entir satisfact . As thi glad ship of good luck bore down upon the moodi pequod , the barbarian sound of enorm drum came from her forecastl ; and draw still nearer , a crowd of her men were seen stand round her huge tri - pot , which , cover with the parchment - like poke or stomach skin of the black fish , gave forth a loud roar to everi stroke of the clench hand of the crew . On the quarter - deck , the mate and harpoon were danc with the oliv - hu girl who had elop with them from the polynesian isl ; while suspend in an ornament boat , firmli secur aloft between the foremast and mainmast , three long island negro , with glitter fiddl - bow of whale ivori , were presid over the hilari jig . meanwhil , other of the ship ' s compani were tumultu busi at the masonri of the tri - work , from which the huge pot had been remov . you would have almost thought they were pull down the curs bastil , such wild cri they rais , as the now useless brick and mortar were be hurl into the sea . lord and master over all thi scene , the captain stood erect on the ship ' s elev quarter - deck , so that the whole rejoic drama wa full befor him , and seem mere contriv for hi own individu divers . and ahab , he too wa stand on hi quarter - deck , shaggi and black , with a stubborn gloom ; and as the two ship cross each other ' s wake -- one all jubil for thing pass , the other all forebod as to thing to come -- their two captain in themselv imperson the whole strike contrast of the scene . `` come aboard , come aboard ! '' cri the gay bachelor ' s command , lift a glass and a bottl in the air . `` hast seen the white whale ? '' grit ahab in repli . `` No ; onli heard of him ; but don ' t believ in him at all , '' said the other good - humoredli . `` come aboard ! '' `` thou art too damn jolli . sail on . hast lost ani men ? '' `` not enough to speak of -- two island , that ' s all ; -- but come aboard , old hearti , come along . I ' ll soon take that black from your brow . come along , will ye ( merri ' s the play ) ; a full ship and homeward - bound . '' `` how wondrou familiar is a fool ! '' mutter ahab ; then aloud , `` thou art a full ship and homeward bound , thou sayst ; well , then , call me an empti ship , and outward - bound . So go thi way , and I will mine . forward there ! set all sail , and keep her to the wind ! '' and thu , while the one ship went cheerili befor the breez , the other stubbornli fought against it ; and so the two vessel part ; the crew of the pequod look with grave , linger glanc toward the reced bachelor ; but the bachelor ' s men never heed their gaze for the live revelri they were in . and as ahab , lean over the taffrail , eye the homewardbound craft , he took from hi pocket a small vial of sand , and then look from the ship to the vial , seem therebi bring two remot associ togeth , for that vial wa fill with nantucket sound . chapter 116 the dy whale . not seldom in thi life , when , on the right side , fortun ' s favourit sail close by us , we , though all adroop befor , catch somewhat of the rush breez , and joy feel our bag sail fill out . So seem it with the pequod . for next day after encount the gay bachelor , whale were seen and four were slain ; and one of them by ahab . It wa far down the afternoon ; and when all the spear of the crimson fight were done : and float in the love sunset sea and sky , sun and whale both stilli die togeth ; then , such a sweet and such plaintiv , such inwreath orison curl up in that rosi air , that it almost seem as if far over from the deep green convent valley of the manilla isl , the spanish land - breez , wantonli turn sailor , had gone to sea , freight with these vesper hymn . sooth again , but onli sooth to deeper gloom , ahab , who had stern off from the whale , sat intent watch hi final wane from the now tranquil boat . for that strang spectacl observ in all sperm whale die -- the turn sunward of the head , and so expir -- that strang spectacl , beheld of such a placid even , somehow to ahab convey a wondrous unknown befor . `` He turn and turn him to it , -- how slowli , but how steadfastli , hi homag - render and invok brow , with hi last die motion . He too worship fire ; most faith , broad , baroni vassal of the sun ! -- Oh that these too - favour eye should see these too - favour sight . look ! here , far water - lock ; beyond all hum of human weal or woe ; in these most candid and imparti sea ; where to tradit no rock furnish tablet ; where for long chines age , the billow have still roll on speechless and unspoken to , as star that shine upon the niger ' s unknown sourc ; here , too , life die sunward full of faith ; but see ! no sooner dead , than death whirl round the corps , and it head some other way . `` Oh , thou dark hindoo half of natur , who of drown bone hast build thi separ throne somewher in the heart of these unverdur sea ; thou art an infidel , thou queen , and too truli speakest to me in the wide - slaughter typhoon , and the hush burial of it after calm . nor ha thi thi whale sunward turn hi die head , and then gone round again , without a lesson to me . `` Oh , trebli hoop and weld hip of power ! Oh , high aspir , rainbow jet ! -- that one strivest , thi one jettest all in vain ! In vain , oh whale , dost thou seek interced with yon all - quicken sun , that onli call forth life , but give it not again . yet dost thou , darker half , rock me with a prouder , if a darker faith . all thi unnam immingl float beneath me here ; I am buoy by breath of onc live thing , exhal as air , but water now . `` then hail , for ever hail , O sea , in whose etern toss the wild fowl find hi onli rest . born of earth , yet suckl by the sea ; though hill and valley mother me , ye billow are my foster - brother ! '' chapter 117 the whale watch . the four whale slain that even had die wide apart ; one , far to windward ; one , less distant , to leeward ; one ahead ; one astern . these last three were brought alongsid ere nightfal ; but the windward one could not be reach till morn ; and the boat that had kill it lay by it side all night ; and that boat wa ahab ' s . the waif - pole wa thrust upright into the dead whale ' s spout - hole ; and the lantern hang from it top , cast a troubl flicker glare upon the black , glossi back , and far out upon the midnight wave , which gentli chafe the whale ' s broad flank , like soft surf upon a beach . ahab and all hi boat ' s crew seem asleep but the parse ; who crouch in the bow , sat watch the shark , that spectral play round the whale , and tap the light cedar plank with their tail . A sound like the moan in squadron over asphaltit of unforgiven ghost of gomorrah , ran shudder through the air . start from hi slumber , ahab , face to face , saw the parse ; and hoop round by the gloom of the night they seem the last men in a flood world . `` I have dream it again , '' said he . `` Of the hears ? have I not said , old man , that neither hears nor coffin can be thine ? '' `` and who are hears that die on the sea ? '' `` but I said , old man , that ere thou couldst die on thi voyag , two hears must verili be seen by thee on the sea ; the first not made by mortal hand ; and the visibl wood of the last one must be grown in america . '' `` aye , aye ! a strang sight that , parse : -- a hears and it plume float over the ocean with the wave for the pall - bearer . Ha ! such a sight we shall not soon see . '' `` believ it or not , thou canst not die till it be seen , old man . '' `` and what wa that say about thyself ? '' `` though it come to the last , I shall still go befor thee thi pilot . '' `` and when thou art so gone befor -- if that ever befal -- then ere I can follow , thou must still appear to me , to pilot me still ? -- wa it not so ? well , then , did I believ all ye say , oh my pilot ! I have here two pledg that I shall yet slay mobi dick and surviv it . '' `` take anoth pledg , old man , '' said the parse , as hi eye light up like fire - fli in the gloom -- '' hemp onli can kill thee . '' `` the gallow , ye mean . -- I am immort then , on land and on sea , '' cri ahab , with a laugh of deris ; -- '' immort on land and on sea ! '' both were silent again , as one man . the grey dawn came on , and the slumber crew aros from the boat ' s bottom , and ere noon the dead whale wa brought to the ship . chapter 118 the quadrant . the season for the line at length drew near ; and everi day when ahab , come from hi cabin , cast hi eye aloft , the vigil helmsman would ostentati handl hi spoke , and the eager marin quickli run to the brace , and would stand there with all their eye central fix on the nail doubloon ; impati for the order to point the ship ' s prow for the equat . In good time the order came . It wa hard upon high noon ; and ahab , seat in the bow of hi high - hoist boat , wa about take hi wont daili observ of the sun to determin hi latitud . now , in that japanes sea , the day in summer are as freshet of effulg . that unblinkingli vivid japanes sun seem the blaze focu of the glassi ocean ' s immeasur burn - glass . the sky look lacquer ; cloud there are none ; the horizon float ; and thi naked of unreliev radianc is as the insuffer splendor of god ' s throne . well that ahab ' s quadrant wa furnish with colour glass , through which to take sight of that solar fire . So , swing hi seat form to the roll of the ship , and with hi astrolog - look instrument place to hi eye , he remain in that postur for some moment to catch the precis instant when the sun should gain it precis meridian . meantim while hi whole attent wa absorb , the parse wa kneel beneath him on the ship ' s deck , and with face thrown up like ahab ' s , wa eye the same sun with him ; onli the lid of hi eye half hood their orb , and hi wild face wa subdu to an earthli passionless . At length the desir observ wa taken ; and with hi pencil upon hi ivori leg , ahab soon calcul what hi latitud must be at that precis instant . then fall into a moment ' s reveri , he again look up toward the sun and murmur to himself : `` thou sea - mark ! thou high and mighti pilot ! thou tellest me truli where I AM -- but canst thou cast the least hint where I shall be ? Or canst thou tell where some other thing besid me is thi moment live ? where is mobi dick ? thi instant thou must be eye him . these eye of mine look into the veri eye that is even now behold him ; aye , and into the eye that is even now equal behold the object on the unknown , thither side of thee , thou sun ! '' then gaze at hi quadrant , and handl , one after the other , it numer cabalist contriv , he ponder again , and mutter : `` foolish toy ! babi ' playth of haughti admir , and commodor , and captain ; the world brag of thee , of thi cun and might ; but what after all canst thou do , but tell the poor , piti point , where thou thyself happenest to be on thi wide planet , and the hand that hold thee : no ! not one jot more ! thou canst not tell where one drop of water or one grain of sand will be to - morrow noon ; and yet with thi impot thou insultest the sun ! scienc ! curs thee , thou vain toy ; and curs be all the thing that cast man ' s eye aloft to that heaven , whose live vivid but scorch him , as these old eye are even now scorch with thi light , O sun ! level by natur to thi earth ' s horizon are the glanc of man ' s eye ; not shot from the crown of hi head , as if god had meant him to gaze on hi firmament . curs thee , thou quadrant ! '' dash it to the deck , `` no longer will I guid my earthli way by thee ; the level ship ' s compass , and the level deadreckon , by log and by line ; these shall conduct me , and show me my place on the sea . aye , '' light from the boat to the deck , `` thu I trampl on thee , thou paltri thing that feebli pointest on high ; thu I split and destroy thee ! '' As the frantic old man thu spoke and thu trampl with hi live and dead feet , a sneer triumph that seem meant for ahab , and a fatalist despair that seem meant for himself -- these pass over the mute , motionless parse ' s face . unobserv he rose and glide away ; while , awestruck by the aspect of their command , the seamen cluster togeth on the forecastl , till ahab , troubledli pace the deck , shout out -- '' To the brace ! Up helm ! -- squar in ! '' In an instant the yard swung round ; and as the ship half - wheel upon her heel , her three firm - seat grace mast erectli pois upon her long , rib hull , seem as the three horatii pirouet on one suffici steed . stand between the knight - head , starbuck watch the pequod ' s tumultu way , and ahab ' s also , as he went lurch along the deck . `` I have sat befor the dens coal fire and watch it all aglow , full of it torment flame life ; and I have seen it wane at last , down , down , to dumbest dust . old man of ocean ! of all thi fieri life of thine , what will at length remain but one littl heap of ash ! '' `` aye , '' cri stubb , `` but sea - coal ash -- mind ye that , Mr . starbuck -- sea - coal , not your common charcoal . well , well ; I heard ahab mutter , ' here some one thrust these card into these old hand of mine ; swear that I must play them , and no other . ' and damn me , ahab , but thou actest right ; live in the game , and die in it ! '' chapter 119 the candl . warmest clime but nurs the cruellest fang : the tiger of bengal crouch in spice grove of ceaseless verdur . ski the most effulg but basket the deadliest thunder : gorgeou cuba know tornado that never swept tame northern land . So , too , it is , that in these resplend japanes sea the marin encount the direst of all storm , the typhoon . It will sometim burst from out that cloudless sky , like an explod bomb upon a daze and sleepi town . toward even of that day , the pequod wa torn of her canva , and bare - pole wa left to fight a typhoon which had struck her directli ahead . when dark came on , sky and sea roar and split with the thunder , and blaze with the lightn , that show the disabl mast flutter here and there with the rag which the first furi of the tempest had left for it after sport . hold by a shroud , starbuck wa stand on the quarter - deck ; at everi flash of the lightn glanc aloft , to see what addit disast might have befallen the intric hamper there ; while stubb and flask were direct the men in the higher hoist and firmer lash of the boat . but all their pain seem naught . though lift to the veri top of the crane , the windward quarter boat ( ahab ' s ) did not escap . A great roll sea , dash high up against the reel ship ' s high teeter side , stove in the boat ' s bottom at the stern , and left it again , all drip through like a siev . `` bad work , bad work ! Mr . starbuck , '' said stubb , regard the wreck , `` but the sea will have it way . stubb , for one , can ' t fight it . you see , Mr . starbuck , a wave ha such a great long start befor it leap , all round the world it run , and then come the spring ! but as for me , all the start I have to meet it , is just across the deck here . but never mind ; it ' s all in fun : so the old song say ; '' -- ( sing . ) Oh ! jolli is the gale , and a joker is the whale , A ' flourishin ' hi tail , -- such a funni , sporti , gami , jesti , joki , hoki - poki lad , is the ocean , oh ! the scud all a flyin ' , that ' s hi flip onli foamin ' ; when he stir in the spicin ' , -- such a funni , sporti , gami , jesti , joki , hoki - poki lad , is the ocean , oh ! thunder split the ship , but he onli smack hi lip , A tastin ' of thi flip , -- such a funni , sporti , gami , jesti , joki , hoki - poki lad , is the ocean , oh ! `` avast stubb , '' cri starbuck , `` let the typhoon sing , and strike hi harp here in our rig ; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold thi peac . '' `` but I am not a brave man ; never said I wa a brave man ; I am a coward ; and I sing to keep up my spirit . and I tell you what it is , Mr . starbuck , there ' s no way to stop my sing in thi world but to cut my throat . and when that ' s done , ten to one I sing ye the doxolog for a wind - up . '' `` madman ! look through my eye if thou hast none of thine own . '' `` what ! how can you see better of a dark night than anybodi els , never mind how foolish ? '' `` here ! '' cri starbuck , seiz stubb by the shoulder , and point hi hand toward the weather bow , `` markest thou not that the gale come from the eastward , the veri cours ahab is to run for mobi dick ? the veri cours he swung to thi day noon ? now mark hi boat there ; where is that stove ? In the stern - sheet , man ; where he is wont to stand -- hi stand - point is stove , man ! now jump overboard , and sing away , if thou must ! `` I don ' t half understand ye : what ' s in the wind ? '' `` ye , ye , round the cape of good hope is the shortest way to nantucket , '' soliloqu starbuck suddenli , heedless of stubb ' s question . `` the gale that now hammer at us to stave us , we can turn it into a fair wind that will drive us toward home . yonder , to windward , all is black of doom ; but to leeward , homeward -- I see it lighten up there ; but not with the lightn . '' At that moment in one of the interv of profound dark , follow the flash , a voic wa heard at hi side ; and almost at the same instant a volley of thunder peal roll overhead . `` who ' s there ? '' `` old thunder ! '' said ahab , grope hi way along the bulwark to hi pivot - hole ; but suddenli find hi path made plain to him by elbow lanc of fire . now , as the lightn rod to a spire on shore is intend to carri off the peril fluid into the soil ; so the kindr rod which at sea some ship carri to each mast , is intend to conduct it into the water . but as thi conductor must descend to consider depth , that it end may avoid all contact with the hull ; and as moreov , if kept constantli tow there , it would be liabl to mani mishap , besid interf not a littl with some of the rig , and more or less imped the vessel ' s way in the water ; becaus of all thi , the lower part of a ship ' s lightn - rod are not alway overboard ; but are gener made in long slender link , so as to be the more readili haul up into the chain outsid , or thrown down into the sea , as occas may requir . `` the rod ! the rod ! '' cri starbuck to the crew , suddenli admonish to vigil by the vivid lightn that had just been dart flambeaux , to light ahab to hi post . `` are they overboard ? drop them over , fore and aft . quick ! '' `` avast ! '' cri ahab ; `` let ' s have fair play here , though we be the weaker side . yet I ' ll contribut to rais rod on the himmaleh and and , that all the world may be secur ; but out on privileg ! let them be , sir . '' `` look aloft ! '' cri starbuck . `` the corpus ! the corpus ! all the yard - arm were tip with a pallid fire ; and touch at each tri - point lightn - rod - end with three taper white flame , each of the three tall mast wa silent burn in that sulphur air , like three gigant wax taper befor an altar . `` blast the boat ! let it go ! '' cri stubb at thi instant , as a swash sea heav up under hi own littl craft , so that it gunwal violent jam hi hand , as he wa pass a lash . `` blast it ! '' -- but slip backward on the deck , hi uplift eye caught the flame ; and immedi shift hi tone he cri -- '' the corpus have merci on us all ! '' To sailor , oath are household word ; they will swear in the tranc of the calm , and in the teeth of the tempest ; they will imprec curs from the topsail - yard - arm , when most they teeter over to a seeth sea ; but in all my voyag , seldom have I heard a common oath when god ' s burn finger ha been laid on the ship ; when hi `` mene , mene , tekel upharsin `` ha been woven into the shroud and the cordag . while thi pallid wa burn aloft , few word were heard from the enchant crew ; who in one thick cluster stood on the forecastl , all their eye gleam in that pale phosphoresc , like a far away constel of star . reliev against the ghostli light , the gigant jet negro , daggoo , loom up to thrice hi real statur , and seem the black cloud from which the thunder had come . the part mouth of tashtego reveal hi shark - white teeth , which strang gleam as if they too had been tip by corpus ; while lit up by the preternatur light , queequeg ' s tattoo burn like satan blue flame on hi bodi . the tableau all wane at last with the pallid aloft ; and onc more the pequod and everi soul on her deck were wrap in a pall . A moment or two pass , when starbuck , go forward , push against some one . It wa stubb . `` what thinkest thou now , man ; I heard thi cri ; it wa not the same in the song . '' `` No , no , it wasn ' t ; I said the corpus have merci on us all ; and I hope they will , still . but do they onli have merci on long face ? -- have they no bowel for a laugh ? and look ye , Mr . starbuck -- but it ' s too dark to look . hear me , then : I take that mast - head flame we saw for a sign of good luck ; for those mast are root in a hold that is go to be chock a ' block with sperm - oil , d ' ye see ; and so , all that sperm will work up into the mast , like sap in a tree . ye , our three mast will yet be as three spermaceti candl -- that ' s the good promis we saw . '' At that moment starbuck caught sight of stubb ' s face slowli begin to glimmer into sight . glanc upward , he cri : `` see ! see ! '' and onc more the high taper flame were beheld with what seem redoubl supernatur in their pallor . `` the corpus have merci on us all , '' cri stubb , again . At the base of the mainmast , full beneath the doubloon and the flame , the parse wa kneel in ahab ' s front , but with hi head bow away from him ; while near by , from the arch and overhang rig , where they had just been engag secur a spar , a number of the seamen , arrest by the glare , now coher togeth , and hung pendul , like a knot of numb wasp from a droop , orchard twig . In variou enchant attitud , like the stand , or step , or run skeleton in herculaneum , other remain root to the deck ; but all their eye upcast . `` aye , aye , men ! '' cri ahab . `` look up at it ; mark it well ; the white flame but light the way to the white whale ! hand me those mainmast link there ; I would fain feel thi puls , and let mine beat against it ; blood against fire ! So . '' then turn -- the last link held fast in hi left hand , he put hi foot upon the parse ; and with fix upward eye , and high - flung right arm , he stood erect befor the lofti tri - point triniti of flame . `` Oh ! thou clear spirit of clear fire , whom on these sea I as persian onc did worship , till in the sacrament act so burn by thee , that to thi hour I bear the scar ; I now know thee , thou clear spirit , and I now know that thi right worship is defianc . To neither love nor rever wilt thou be kind ; and e ' en for hate thou canst but kill ; and all are kill . No fearless fool now front thee . I own thi speechless , placeless power ; but to the last gasp of my earthquak life will disput it uncondit , unintegr masteri in me . In the midst of the personifi imperson , a person stand here . though but a point at best ; whenceso ' er I came ; whereso ' er I go ; yet while I earthli live , the queenli person live in me , and feel her royal right . but war is pain , and hate is woe . come in thi lowest form of love , and I will kneel and kiss thee ; but at thi highest , come as mere supern power ; and though thou launchest navi of full - freight world , there ' s that in here that still remain indiffer . Oh , thou clear spirit , of thi fire thou madest me , and like a true child of fire , I breath it back to thee . '' [ sudden , repeat flash OF lightn ; the nine flame leap lengthwis TO thrice their previou height ; ahab , with the rest , close hi eye , hi right hand press hard upon them . ] `` I own thi speechless , placeless power ; said I not so ? nor wa it wrung from me ; nor do I now drop these link . thou canst blind ; but I can then grope . thou canst consum ; but I can then be ash . take the homag of these poor eye , and shutter - hand . I would not take it . the lightn flash through my skull ; mine eye - ball ach and ach ; my whole beaten brain seem as behead , and roll on some stun ground . Oh , oh ! yet blindfold , yet will I talk to thee . light though thou be , thou leapest out of dark ; but I am dark leap out of light , leap out of thee ! the javelin ceas ; open eye ; see , or not ? there burn the flame ! Oh , thou magnanim ! now I do glori in my genealog . but thou art but my fieri father ; my sweet mother , I know not . Oh , cruel ! what hast thou done with her ? there lie my puzzl ; but thine is greater . thou knowest not how came ye , henc callest thyself unbegotten ; certainli knowest not thi begin , henc callest thyself unbegun . I know that of me , which thou knowest not of thyself , oh , thou omnipot . there is some unsuffus thing beyond thee , thou clear spirit , to whom all thi etern is but time , all thi creativ mechan . through thee , thi flame self , my scorch eye do dimli see it . Oh , thou foundl fire , thou hermit immemori , thou too hast thi incommunic riddl , thi unparticip grief . here again with haughti agoni , I read my sire . leap ! leap up , and lick the sky ! I leap with thee ; I burn with thee ; would fain be weld with thee ; defyingli I worship thee ! '' `` the boat ! the boat ! '' cri starbuck , `` look at thi boat , old man ! '' ahab ' s harpoon , the one forg at perth ' s fire , remain firmli lash in it conspicu crotch , so that it project beyond hi whale - boat ' s bow ; but the sea that had stove it bottom had caus the loos leather sheath to drop off ; and from the keen steel barb there now came a level flame of pale , fork fire . As the silent harpoon burn there like a serpent ' s tongu , starbuck grasp ahab by the arm -- '' god , god is against thee , old man ; forbear ! ' ti an ill voyag ! ill begun , ill continu ; let me squar the yard , while we may , old man , and make a fair wind of it homeward , to go on a better voyag than thi . '' overhear starbuck , the panic - stricken crew instantli ran to the brace -- though not a sail wa left aloft . for the moment all the aghast mate ' s thought seem their ; they rais a half mutin cri . but dash the rattl lightn link to the deck , and snatch the burn harpoon , ahab wave it like a torch among them ; swear to transfix with it the first sailor that but cast loos a rope ' s end . petrifi by hi aspect , and still more shrink from the fieri dart that he held , the men fell back in dismay , and ahab again spoke : -- `` all your oath to hunt the white whale are as bind as mine ; and heart , soul , and bodi , lung and life , old ahab is bound . and that ye may know to what tune thi heart beat ; look ye here ; thu I blow out the last fear ! '' and with one blast of hi breath he extinguish the flame . As in the hurrican that sweep the plain , men fli the neighborhood of some lone , gigant elm , whose veri height and strength but render it so much the more unsaf , becaus so much the more a mark for thunderbolt ; so at those last word of ahab ' s mani of the marin did run from him in a terror of dismay . chapter 120 the deck toward the end of the first night watch . ahab stand BY the helm . starbuck approach him . We must send down the main - top - sail yard , sir . the band is work loos and the lee lift is half - strand . shall I strike it , sir ? '' `` strike noth ; lash it . If I had sky - sail pole , I ' d sway them up now . '' `` sir ! -- in god ' s name ! -- sir ? '' `` well . '' `` the anchor are work , sir . shall I get them inboard ? '' `` strike noth , and stir noth , but lash everyth . the wind rise , but it ha not got up to my tabl - land yet . quick , and see to it . -- By mast and keel ! he take me for the hunch - back skipper of some coast smack . send down my main - top - sail yard ! Ho , gluepot ! loftiest truck were made for wildest wind , and thi brain - truck of mine now sail amid the cloud - scud . shall I strike that ? Oh , none but coward send down their brain - truck in tempest time . what a hooroosh aloft there ! I would e ' en take it for sublim , did I not know that the colic is a noisi maladi . Oh , take medicin , take medicin ! '' chapter 121 midnight . -- the forecastl bulwark . stubb and flask mount ON them , and pass addit lash over the anchor there hang . No , stubb ; you may pound that knot there as much as you pleas , but you will never pound into me what you were just now say . and how long ago is it sinc you said the veri contrari ? didn ' t you onc say that whatev ship ahab sail in , that ship should pay someth extra on it insur polici , just as though it were load with powder barrel aft and box of lucif forward ? stop , now ; didn ' t you say so ? '' `` well , suppos I did ? what then ? I ' ve part chang my flesh sinc that time , whi not my mind ? besid , suppos we are load with powder barrel aft and lucif forward ; how the devil could the lucif get afir in thi drench spray here ? whi , my littl man , you have pretti red hair , but you couldn ' t get afir now . shake yourself ; you ' re aquariu , or the water - bearer , flask ; might fill pitcher at your coat collar . don ' t you see , then , that for these extra risk the marin insur compani have extra guarante ? here are hydrant , flask . but hark , again , and I ' ll answer ye the other thing . first take your leg off from the crown of the anchor here , though , so I can pass the rope ; now listen . what ' s the mighti differ between hold a mast ' s lightn - rod in the storm , and stand close by a mast that hasn ' t got ani lightn - rod at all in a storm ? don ' t you see , you timber - head , that no harm can come to the holder of the rod , unless the mast is first struck ? what are you talk about , then ? not one ship in a hundr carri rod , and ahab , -- aye , man , and all of us , -- were in no more danger then , in my poor opinion , than all the crew in ten thousand ship now sail the sea . whi , you king - post , you , I suppos you would have everi man in the world go about with a small lightn - rod run up the corner of hi hat , like a militia offic ' s skewer feather , and trail behind like hi sash . whi don ' t ye be sensibl , flask ? it ' s easi to be sensibl ; whi don ' t ye , then ? ani man with half an eye can be sensibl . '' `` I don ' t know that , stubb . you sometim find it rather hard . '' `` ye , when a fellow ' s soak through , it ' s hard to be sensibl , that ' s a fact . and I am about drench with thi spray . never mind ; catch the turn there , and pass it . seem to me we are lash down these anchor now as if they were never go to be use again . ty these two anchor here , flask , seem like tie a man ' s hand behind him . and what big gener hand they are , to be sure . these are your iron fist , hey ? what a hold they have , too ! I wonder , flask , whether the world is anchor anywher ; if she is , she swing with an uncommon long cabl , though . there , hammer that knot down , and we ' ve done . So ; next to touch land , light on deck is the most satisfactori . I say , just wring out my jacket skirt , will ye ? thank ye . they laugh at long - tog so , flask ; but seem to me , a long tail coat ought alway to be worn in all storm afloat . the tail taper down that way , serv to carri off the water , d ' ye see . same with cock hat ; the cock form gabl - end eav - trough , flask . No more monkey - jacket and tarpaulin for me ; I must mount a swallow - tail , and drive down a beaver ; so . halloa ! whew ! there goe my tarpaulin overboard ; lord , lord , that the wind that come from heaven should be so unmannerli ! thi is a nasti night , lad . '' chapter 122 midnight aloft . -- thunder and lightn . the main - top - sail yard . -- tashtego pass new lash around IT . `` Um , um , um . stop that thunder ! plenti too much thunder up here . what ' s the use of thunder ? Um , um , um . We don ' t want thunder ; we want rum ; give us a glass of rum . Um , um , um ! '' chapter 123 the musket . dure the most violent shock of the typhoon , the man at the pequod ' s jaw - bone tiller had sever time been reelingli hurl to the deck by it spasmod motion , even though prevent tackl had been attach to it -- for they were slack -- becaus some play to the tiller wa indispens . In a sever gale like thi , while the ship is but a toss shuttlecock to the blast , it is by no mean uncommon to see the needl in the compass , at interv , go round and round . It wa thu with the pequod ' s ; at almost everi shock the helmsman had not fail to notic the whirl veloc with which they revolv upon the card ; it is a sight that hardli anyon can behold without some sort of unwont emot . some hour after midnight , the typhoon abat so much , that through the strenuou exert of starbuck and stubb -- one engag forward and the other aft -- the shiver remnant of the jib and fore and main - top - sail were cut adrift from the spar , and went eddi away to leeward , like the feather of an albatross , which sometim are cast to the wind when that storm - toss bird is on the wing . the three correspond new sail were now bent and reef , and a storm - trysail wa set further aft ; so that the ship soon went through the water with some precis again ; and the cours -- for the present , east - south - east -- which he wa to steer , if practic , wa onc more given to the helmsman . for dure the violenc of the gale , he had onli steer accord to it vicissitud . but as he wa now bring the ship as near her cours as possibl , watch the compass meanwhil , lo ! a good sign ! the wind seem come round astern ; aye , the foul breez becam fair ! instantli the yard were squar , to the live song of `` HO ! the fair wind ! OH - YE - HO , cheerli men ! '' the crew sing for joy , that so promis an event should so soon have falsifi the evil portent preced it . In complianc with the stand order of hi command -- to report immedi , and at ani one of the twenti - four hour , ani decid chang in the affair of the deck , -- starbuck had no sooner trim the yard to the breez -- howev reluctantli and gloomili , -- than he mechan went below to appris captain ahab of the circumst . ere knock at hi state - room , he involuntarili paus befor it a moment . the cabin lamp -- take long swing thi way and that -- wa burn fit , and cast fit shadow upon the old man ' s bolt door , -- a thin one , with fix blind insert , in place of upper panel . the isol subterran of the cabin made a certain hum silenc to reign there , though it wa hoop round by all the roar of the element . the load musket in the rack were shiningli reveal , as they stood upright against the forward bulkhead . starbuck wa an honest , upright man ; but out of starbuck ' s heart , at that instant when he saw the musket , there strang evolv an evil thought ; but so blent with it neutral or good accompani that for the instant he hardli knew it for itself . `` He would have shot me onc , '' he murmur , `` ye , there ' s the veri musket that he point at me ; -- that one with the stud stock ; let me touch it -- lift it . strang , that I , who have handl so mani deadli lanc , strang , that I should shake so now . load ? I must see . aye , aye ; and powder in the pan ; -- that ' s not good . best spill it ? -- wait . I ' ll cure myself of thi . I ' ll hold the musket boldli while I think . -- I come to report a fair wind to him . but how fair ? fair for death and doom , -- that ' S fair for mobi dick . It ' s a fair wind that ' s onli fair for that accurs fish . -- the veri tube he point at me ! -- the veri one ; thi one -- I hold it here ; he would have kill me with the veri thing I handl now . -- aye and he would fain kill all hi crew . doe he not say he will not strike hi spar to ani gale ? ha he not dash hi heavenli quadrant ? and in these same peril sea , grope he not hi way by mere dead reckon of the error - abound log ? and in thi veri typhoon , did he not swear that he would have no lightn - rod ? but shall thi craze old man be tame suffer to drag a whole ship ' s compani down to doom with him ? -- ye , it would make him the wil murder of thirti men and more , if thi ship come to ani deadli harm ; and come to deadli harm , my soul swear thi ship will , if ahab have hi way . If , then , he were thi instant -- put asid , that crime would not be hi . Ha ! is he mutter in hi sleep ? ye , just there , -- in there , he ' s sleep . sleep ? aye , but still aliv , and soon awak again . I can ' t withstand thee , then , old man . not reason ; not remonstr ; not entreati wilt thou hearken to ; all thi thou scornest . flat obedi to thi own flat command , thi is all thou breathest . aye , and say ' st the men have vow ' d thi vow ; say ' st all of us are ahab . great god forbid ! -- but is there no other way ? no law way ? -- make him a prison to be taken home ? what ! hope to wrest thi old man ' s live power from hi own live hand ? onli a fool would tri it . say he were pinion even ; knot all over with rope and hawser ; chain down to ring - bolt on thi cabin floor ; he would be more hideou than a cage tiger , then . I could not endur the sight ; could not possibl fli hi howl ; all comfort , sleep itself , inestim reason would leav me on the long intoler voyag . what , then , remain ? the land is hundr of leagu away , and lock japan the nearest . I stand alon here upon an open sea , with two ocean and a whole contin between me and law . -- aye , aye , ' ti so . -- Is heaven a murder when it lightn strike a would - be murder in hi bed , tinder sheet and skin togeth ? -- and would I be a murder , then , if `` -- and slowli , stealthili , and half sideway look , he place the load musket ' s end against the door . `` On thi level , ahab ' s hammock swing within ; hi head thi way . A touch , and starbuck may surviv to hug hi wife and child again . -- Oh mari ! mari ! -- boy ! boy ! boy ! -- but if I wake thee not to death , old man , who can tell to what unsound deep starbuck ' s bodi thi day week may sink , with all the crew ! great god , where art thou ? shall I ? shall I ? -- the wind ha gone down and shift , sir ; the fore and main topsail are reef and set ; she head her cours . '' `` stern all ! Oh mobi dick , I clutch thi heart at last ! '' such were the sound that now came hurtl from out the old man ' s torment sleep , as if starbuck ' s voic had caus the long dumb dream to speak . the yet level musket shook like a drunkard ' s arm against the panel ; starbuck seem wrestl with an angel ; but turn from the door , he place the death - tube in it rack , and left the place . `` He ' s too sound asleep , Mr . stubb ; go thou down , and wake him , and tell him . I must see to the deck here . thou know ' st what to say . '' chapter 124 the needl . next morn the not - yet - subsid sea roll in long slow billow of mighti bulk , and strive in the pequod ' s gurgl track , push her on like giant ' palm outspread . the strong , unstagg breez abound so , that sky and air seem vast outbelli sail ; the whole world boom befor the wind . muffl in the full morn light , the invis sun wa onli known by the spread intens of hi place ; where hi bayonet ray move on in stack . emblazon , as of crown babylonian king and queen , reign over everyth . the sea wa as a crucibl of molten gold , that bubblingli leap with light and heat . long maintain an enchant silenc , ahab stood apart ; and everi time the teter ship loweringli pitch down her bowsprit , he turn to eye the bright sun ' s ray produc ahead ; and when she profoundli settl by the stern , he turn behind , and saw the sun ' s rearward place , and how the same yellow ray were blend with hi undevi wake . `` Ha , ha , my ship ! thou mightest well be taken now for the sea - chariot of the sun . Ho , ho ! all ye nation befor my prow , I bring the sun to ye ! yoke on the further billow ; hallo ! a tandem , I drive the sea ! '' but suddenli rein back by some counter thought , he hurri toward the helm , huskili demand how the ship wa head . `` east - sou - east , sir , '' said the frighten steersman . `` thou liest ! '' smite him with hi clench fist . `` head east at thi hour in the morn , and the sun astern ? '' upon thi everi soul wa confound ; for the phenomenon just then observ by ahab had unaccount escap everi one els ; but it veri blind palpabl must have been the caus . thrust hi head half way into the binnacl , ahab caught one glimps of the compass ; hi uplift arm slowli fell ; for a moment he almost seem to stagger . stand behind him starbuck look , and lo ! the two compass point east , and the pequod wa as infal go west . but ere the first wild alarm could get out abroad among the crew , the old man with a rigid laugh exclaim , `` I have it ! It ha happen befor . Mr . starbuck , last night ' s thunder turn our compass -- that ' s all . thou hast befor now heard of such a thing , I take it . '' `` aye ; but never befor ha it happen to me , sir , '' said the pale mate , gloomili . here , it must need be said , that accid like thi have in more than one case occur to ship in violent storm . the magnet energi , as develop in the marin ' s needl , is , as all know , essenti one with the electr beheld in heaven ; henc it is not to be much marvel at , that such thing should be . instanc where the lightn ha actual struck the vessel , so as to smite down some of the spar and rig , the effect upon the needl ha at time been still more fatal ; all it loadston virtu be annihil , so that the befor magnet steel wa of no more use than an old wife ' s knit needl . but in either case , the needl never again , of itself , recov the origin virtu thu mar or lost ; and if the binnacl compass be affect , the same fate reach all the other that may be in the ship ; even were the lowermost one insert into the kelson . deliber stand befor the binnacl , and eye the transpoint compass , the old man , with the sharp of hi extend hand , now took the precis bear of the sun , and satisfi that the needl were exactli invert , shout out hi order for the ship ' s cours to be chang accordingli . the yard were hard up ; and onc more the pequod thrust her undaunt bow into the oppos wind , for the suppos fair one had onli been juggl her . meanwhil , whatev were hi own secret thought , starbuck said noth , but quietli he issu all requisit order ; while stubb and flask -- who in some small degre seem then to be share hi feel -- likewis unmurmuringli acquiesc . As for the men , though some of them lowli rumbl , their fear of ahab wa greater than their fear of fate . but as ever befor , the pagan harpoon remain almost wholli unimpress ; or if impress , it wa onli with a certain magnet shot into their congeni heart from inflex ahab ' s . for a space the old man walk the deck in roll reveri . but chanc to slip with hi ivori heel , he saw the crush copper sight - tube of the quadrant he had the day befor dash to the deck . `` thou poor , proud heaven - gazer and sun ' s pilot ! yesterday I wreck thee , and to - day the compass would fain have wreck me . So , so . but ahab is lord over the level loadston yet . Mr . starbuck -- a lanc without a pole ; a top - maul , and the smallest of the sail - maker ' s needl . quick ! '' accessori , perhap , to the impuls dictat the thing he wa now about to do , were certain prudenti motiv , whose object might have been to reviv the spirit of hi crew by a stroke of hi subtil skill , in a matter so wondrou as that of the invert compass . besid , the old man well knew that to steer by transpoint needl , though clumsili practic , wa not a thing to be pass over by superstiti sailor , without some shudder and evil portent . `` men , '' said he , steadili turn upon the crew , as the mate hand him the thing he had demand , `` my men , the thunder turn old ahab ' s needl ; but out of thi bit of steel ahab can make one of hi own , that will point as true as ani . '' abash glanc of servil wonder were exchang by the sailor , as thi wa said ; and with fascin eye they await whatev magic might follow . but starbuck look away . with a blow from the top - maul ahab knock off the steel head of the lanc , and then hand to the mate the long iron rod remain , bade him hold it upright , without it touch the deck . then , with the maul , after repeatedli smite the upper end of thi iron rod , he place the blunt needl endwis on the top of it , and less strongli hammer that , sever time , the mate still hold the rod as befor . then go through some small strang motion with it -- whether indispens to the magnet of the steel , or mere intend to augment the awe of the crew , is uncertain -- he call for linen thread ; and move to the binnacl , slip out the two revers needl there , and horizont suspend the sail - needl by it middl , over one of the compass - card . At first , the steel went round and round , quiver and vibrat at either end ; but at last it settl to it place , when ahab , who had been intent watch for thi result , step frankli back from the binnacl , and point hi stretch arm toward it , exclaim , -- '' look ye , for yourselv , if ahab be not lord of the level loadston ! the sun is east , and that compass swear it ! '' one after anoth they peer in , for noth but their own eye could persuad such ignor as their , and one after anoth they slunk away . In hi fieri eye of scorn and triumph , you then saw ahab in all hi fatal pride . chapter 125 the log and line . while now the fate pequod had been so long afloat thi voyag , the log and line had but veri seldom been in use . owe to a confid relianc upon other mean of determin the vessel ' s place , some merchantmen , and mani whalemen , especi when cruis , wholli neglect to heav the log ; though at the same time , and frequent more for form ' s sake than anyth els , regularli put down upon the customari slate the cours steer by the ship , as well as the presum averag rate of progress everi hour . It had been thu with the pequod . the wooden reel and angular log attach hung , long untouch , just beneath the rail of the after bulwark . rain and spray had damp it ; sun and wind had warp it ; all the element had combin to rot a thing that hung so idli . but heedless of all thi , hi mood seiz ahab , as he happen to glanc upon the reel , not mani hour after the magnet scene , and he rememb how hi quadrant wa no more , and recal hi frantic oath about the level log and line . the ship wa sail plungingli ; astern the billow roll in riot . `` forward , there ! heav the log ! '' two seamen came . the golden - hu tahitian and the grizzli manxman . `` take the reel , one of ye , I ' ll heav . '' they went toward the extrem stern , on the ship ' s lee side , where the deck , with the obliqu energi of the wind , wa now almost dip into the creami , sidelong - rush sea . the manxman took the reel , and hold it high up , by the project handl - end of the spindl , round which the spool of line revolv , so stood with the angular log hang downward , till ahab advanc to him . ahab stood befor him , and wa lightli unwind some thirti or forti turn to form a preliminari hand - coil to toss overboard , when the old manxman , who wa intent eye both him and the line , made bold to speak . `` sir , I mistrust it ; thi line look far gone , long heat and wet have spoil it . '' `` ' twill hold , old gentleman . long heat and wet , have they spoil thee ? thou seem ' st to hold . Or , truer perhap , life hold thee ; not thou it . '' `` I hold the spool , sir . but just as my captain say . with these grey hair of mine ' ti not worth while disput , ' special with a superior , who ' ll ne ' er confess . '' `` what ' s that ? there now ' s a patch professor in queen natur ' s granit - found colleg ; but methink he ' s too subservi . where wert thou born ? '' `` In the littl rocki isl of man , sir . '' `` excel ! thou ' st hit the world by that . '' `` I know not , sir , but I wa born there . '' `` In the isl of man , hey ? well , the other way , it ' s good . here ' s a man from man ; a man born in onc independ man , and now unman of man ; which is suck in -- by what ? Up with the reel ! the dead , blind wall butt all inquir head at last . Up with it ! So . '' the log wa heav . the loos coil rapidli straighten out in a long drag line astern , and then , instantli , the reel began to whirl . In turn , jerkingli rais and lower by the roll billow , the tow resist of the log caus the old reelman to stagger strang . `` hold hard ! '' snap ! the overstrain line sag down in one long festoon ; the tug log wa gone . `` I crush the quadrant , the thunder turn the needl , and now the mad sea part the log - line . but ahab can mend all . haul in here , tahitian ; reel up , manxman . and look ye , let the carpent make anoth log , and mend thou the line . see to it . '' `` there he goe now ; to him noth ' s happen ; but to me , the skewer seem loosen out of the middl of the world . haul in , haul in , tahitian ! these line run whole , and whirl out : come in broken , and drag slow . Ha , pip ? come to help ; eh , pip ? '' `` pip ? whom call ye pip ? pip jump from the whale - boat . pip ' s miss . let ' s see now if ye haven ' t fish him up here , fisherman . It drag hard ; I guess he ' s hold on . jerk him , tahiti ! jerk him off ; we haul in no coward here . Ho ! there ' s hi arm just break water . A hatchet ! a hatchet ! cut it off -- we haul in no coward here . captain ahab ! sir , sir ! here ' s pip , tri to get on board again . '' `` peac , thou crazi loon , '' cri the manxman , seiz him by the arm . `` away from the quarter - deck ! '' `` the greater idiot ever scold the lesser , '' mutter ahab , advanc . `` hand off from that holi ! where sayest thou pip wa , boy ? `` astern there , sir , astern ! Lo ! lo ! '' `` and who art thou , boy ? I see not my reflect in the vacant pupil of thi eye . Oh god ! that man should be a thing for immort soul to siev through ! who art thou , boy ? '' `` bell - boy , sir ; ship ' s - crier ; ding , dong , ding ! pip ! pip ! pip ! one hundr pound of clay reward for pip ; five feet high -- look cowardli -- quickest known by that ! ding , dong , ding ! who ' s seen pip the coward ? '' `` there can be no heart abov the snow - line . Oh , ye frozen heaven ! look down here . Ye did beget thi luckless child , and have abandon him , ye creativ libertin . here , boy ; ahab ' s cabin shall be pip ' s home henceforth , while ahab live . thou touchest my inmost centr , boy ; thou art tie to me by cord woven of my heart - string . come , let ' s down . '' `` what ' s thi ? here ' s velvet shark - skin , '' intent gaze at ahab ' s hand , and feel it . `` Ah , now , had poor pip but felt so kind a thing as thi , perhap he had ne ' er been lost ! thi seem to me , sir , as a man - rope ; someth that weak soul may hold by . Oh , sir , let old perth now come and rivet these two hand togeth ; the black one with the white , for I will not let thi go . '' `` Oh , boy , nor will I thee , unless I should therebi drag thee to wors horror than are here . come , then , to my cabin . Lo ! ye believ in god all good , and in man all ill , lo you ! see the omnisci god oblivi of suffer man ; and man , though idiot , and know not what he doe , yet full of the sweet thing of love and gratitud . come ! I feel prouder lead thee by thi black hand , than though I grasp an emperor ' s ! '' `` there go two daft one now , '' mutter the old manxman . `` one daft with strength , the other daft with weak . but here ' s the end of the rotten line -- all drip , too . mend it , eh ? I think we had best have a new line altogeth . I ' ll see Mr . stubb about it . '' chapter 126 the life - buoy . steer now south - eastward by ahab ' s level steel , and her progress sole determin by ahab ' s level log and line ; the pequod held on her path toward the equat . make so long a passag through such unfrequ water , descri no ship , and ere long , sideway impel by unvari trade wind , over wave monoton mild ; all these seem the strang calm thing prelud some riotou and desper scene . At last , when the ship drew near to the outskirt , as it were , of the equatori fish - ground , and in the deep dark that goe befor the dawn , wa sail by a cluster of rocki islet ; the watch -- then head by flask -- wa startl by a cri so plaintiv wild and unearthli -- like half - articul wail of the ghost of all herod ' s murder innoc -- that one and all , they start from their reveri , and for the space of some moment stood , or sat , or lean all transfixedli listen , like the carv roman slave , while that wild cri remain within hear . the christian or civil part of the crew said it wa mermaid , and shudder ; but the pagan harpoon remain unappal . yet the grey manxman -- the oldest marin of all -- declar that the wild thrill sound that were heard , were the voic of newli drown men in the sea . below in hi hammock , ahab did not hear of thi till grey dawn , when he came to the deck ; it wa then recount to him by flask , not unaccompani with hint dark mean . He hollowli laugh , and thu explain the wonder . those rocki island the ship had pass were the resort of great number of seal , and some young seal that had lost their dam , or some dam that had lost their cub , must have risen nigh the ship and kept compani with her , cri and sob with their human sort of wail . but thi onli the more affect some of them , becaus most marin cherish a veri superstiti feel about seal , aris not onli from their peculiar tone when in distress , but also from the human look of their round head and semi - intellig face , seen peeringli upris from the water alongsid . In the sea , under certain circumst , seal have more than onc been mistaken for men . but the bode of the crew were destin to receiv a most plausibl confirm in the fate of one of their number that morn . At sun - rise thi man went from hi hammock to hi mast - head at the fore ; and whether it wa that he wa not yet half wake from hi sleep ( for sailor sometim go aloft in a transit state ) , whether it wa thu with the man , there is now no tell ; but , be that as it may , he had not been long at hi perch , when a cri wa heard -- a cri and a rush -- and look up , they saw a fall phantom in the air ; and look down , a littl toss heap of white bubbl in the blue of the sea . the life - buoy -- a long slender cask -- wa drop from the stern , where it alway hung obedi to a cun spring ; but no hand rose to seiz it , and the sun have long beat upon thi cask it had shrunken , so that it slowli fill , and that parch wood also fill at it everi pore ; and the stud iron - bound cask follow the sailor to the bottom , as if to yield him hi pillow , though in sooth but a hard one . and thu the first man of the pequod that mount the mast to look out for the white whale , on the white whale ' s own peculiar ground ; that man wa swallow up in the deep . but few , perhap , thought of that at the time . inde , in some sort , they were not griev at thi event , at least as a portent ; for they regard it , not as a foreshadow of evil in the futur , but as the fulfil of an evil alreadi presag . they declar that now they knew the reason of those wild shriek they had heard the night befor . but again the old manxman said nay . the lost life - buoy wa now to be replac ; starbuck wa direct to see to it ; but as no cask of suffici light could be found , and as in the feverish eager of what seem the approach crisi of the voyag , all hand were impati of ani toil but what wa directli connect with it final end , whatev that might prove to be ; therefor , they were go to leav the ship ' s stern unprovid with a buoy , when by certain strang sign and inuendo queequeg hint a hint concern hi coffin . `` A life - buoy of a coffin ! '' cri starbuck , start . `` rather queer , that , I should say , '' said stubb . `` It will make a good enough one , '' said flask , `` the carpent here can arrang it easili . '' `` bring it up ; there ' s noth els for it , '' said starbuck , after a melancholi paus . `` rig it , carpent ; do not look at me so -- the coffin , I mean . dost thou hear me ? rig it . '' `` and shall I nail down the lid , sir ? '' move hi hand as with a hammer . `` aye . '' `` and shall I caulk the seam , sir ? '' move hi hand as with a caulk - iron . `` aye . '' `` and shall I then pay over the same with pitch , sir ? '' move hi hand as with a pitch - pot . `` away ! what possess thee to thi ? make a life - buoy of the coffin , and no more . -- Mr . stubb , Mr . flask , come forward with me . '' `` He goe off in a huff . the whole he can endur ; at the part he baulk . now I don ' t like thi . I make a leg for captain ahab , and he wear it like a gentleman ; but I make a bandbox for queequeg , and he won ' t put hi head into it . are all my pain to go for noth with that coffin ? and now I ' m order to make a life - buoy of it . It ' s like turn an old coat ; go to bring the flesh on the other side now . I don ' t like thi cobbl sort of busi -- I don ' t like it at all ; it ' s undignifi ; it ' s not my place . let tinker ' brat do tinker ; we are their better . I like to take in hand none but clean , virgin , fair - and - squar mathemat job , someth that regularli begin at the begin , and is at the middl when midway , and come to an end at the conclus ; not a cobbler ' s job , that ' s at an end in the middl , and at the begin at the end . It ' s the old woman ' s trick to be give cobbl job . lord ! what an affect all old women have for tinker . I know an old woman of sixti - five who ran away with a bald - head young tinker onc . and that ' s the reason I never would work for lone widow old women ashor , when I kept my job - shop in the vineyard ; they might have taken it into their lone old head to run off with me . but heigh - ho ! there are no cap at sea but snow - cap . let me see . nail down the lid ; caulk the seam ; pay over the same with pitch ; batten them down tight , and hang it with the snap - spring over the ship ' s stern . were ever such thing done befor with a coffin ? some superstiti old carpent , now , would be tie up in the rig , ere they would do the job . but I ' m made of knotti aroostook hemlock ; I don ' t budg . crupper with a coffin ! sail about with a grave - yard tray ! but never mind . We worker in wood make bridal - bedstead and card - tabl , as well as coffin and hears . We work by the month , or by the job , or by the profit ; not for us to ask the whi and wherefor of our work , unless it be too confound cobbl , and then we stash it if we can . hem ! I ' ll do the job , now , tenderli . I ' ll have me -- let ' s see -- how mani in the ship ' s compani , all told ? but I ' ve forgotten . ani way , I ' ll have me thirti separ , turk ' s - head life - line , each three feet long hang all round to the coffin . then , if the hull go down , there ' ll be thirti live fellow all fight for one coffin , a sight not seen veri often beneath the sun ! come hammer , caulk - iron , pitch - pot , and marl - spike ! let ' s to it . '' chapter 127 the deck . the coffin laid upon two line - tub , between the vice - bench and the open hatchway ; the carpent caulk it seam ; the string OF twist oakum slowli unwind from A larg roll OF IT place IN the bosom OF hi frock . -- ahab come slowli from the cabin - gangway , and hear pip follow him . back , lad ; I will be with ye again present . He goe ! not thi hand compli with my humor more genial than that boy . -- middl aisl of a church ! what ' s here ? '' `` life - buoy , sir . Mr . starbuck ' s order . Oh , look , sir ! bewar the hatchway ! '' `` thank ye , man . thi coffin lie handi to the vault . '' `` sir ? the hatchway ? oh ! So it doe , sir , so it doe . '' `` art not thou the leg - maker ? look , did not thi stump come from thi shop ? '' `` I believ it did , sir ; doe the ferrul stand , sir ? '' `` well enough . but art thou not also the undertak ? '' `` aye , sir ; I patch up thi thing here as a coffin for queequeg ; but they ' ve set me now to turn it into someth els . '' `` then tell me ; art thou not an arrant , all - grasp , intermeddl , monopolis , heathenish old scamp , to be one day make leg , and the next day coffin to clap them in , and yet again life - buoy out of those same coffin ? thou art as unprincipl as the god , and as much of a jack - of - all - trade . '' `` but I do not mean anyth , sir . I do as I do . '' `` the god again . hark ye , dost thou not ever sing work about a coffin ? the titan , they say , hum snatch when chip out the crater for volcano ; and the grave - digger in the play sing , spade in hand . dost thou never ? '' `` sing , sir ? Do I sing ? Oh , I ' m indiffer enough , sir , for that ; but the reason whi the grave - digger made music must have been becaus there wa none in hi spade , sir . but the caulk mallet is full of it . hark to it . '' `` aye , and that ' s becaus the lid there ' s a sound - board ; and what in all thing make the sound - board is thi -- there ' s naught beneath . and yet , a coffin with a bodi in it ring pretti much the same , carpent . hast thou ever help carri a bier , and heard the coffin knock against the churchyard gate , go in ? `` faith , sir , I ' ve -- '' `` faith ? what ' s that ? '' `` whi , faith , sir , it ' s onli a sort of exclam - like -- that ' s all , sir . '' `` Um , um ; go on . '' `` I wa about to say , sir , that -- '' `` art thou a silk - worm ? dost thou spin thi own shroud out of thyself ? look at thi bosom ! despatch ! and get these trap out of sight . '' `` He goe aft . that wa sudden , now ; but squall come sudden in hot latitud . I ' ve heard that the isl of albemarl , one of the gallipago , is cut by the equat right in the middl . seem to me some sort of equat cut yon old man , too , right in hi middl . He ' s alway under the line -- fieri hot , I tell ye ! He ' s look thi way -- come , oakum ; quick . here we go again . thi wooden mallet is the cork , and I ' m the professor of music glass -- tap , tap ! '' ( ahab TO himself . ) `` there ' s a sight ! there ' s a sound ! the grey - head woodpeck tap the hollow tree ! blind and dumb might well be envi now . see ! that thing rest on two line - tub , full of tow - line . A most malici wag , that fellow . rat - tat ! So man ' s second tick ! Oh ! how immateri are all materi ! what thing real are there , but imponder thought ? here now ' s the veri dread symbol of grim death , by a mere hap , made the express sign of the help and hope of most endang life . A life - buoy of a coffin ! doe it go further ? can it be that in some spiritu sens the coffin is , after all , but an immort - preserv ! I ' ll think of that . but no . So far gone am I in the dark side of earth , that it other side , the theoret bright one , seem but uncertain twilight to me . will ye never have done , carpent , with that accurs sound ? I go below ; let me not see that thing here when I return again . now , then , pip , we ' ll talk thi over ; I do suck most wondrou philosophi from thee ! some unknown conduit from the unknown world must empti into thee ! '' chapter 128 the pequod meet the rachel . next day , a larg ship , the rachel , wa descri , bear directli down upon the pequod , all her spar thickli cluster with men . At the time the pequod wa make good speed through the water ; but as the broad - wing windward stranger shot nigh to her , the boast sail all fell togeth as blank bladder that are burst , and all life fled from the smitten hull . `` bad news ; she bring bad news , '' mutter the old manxman . but ere her command , who , with trumpet to mouth , stood up in hi boat ; ere he could hope hail , ahab ' s voic wa heard . `` hast seen the white whale ? '' `` aye , yesterday . have ye seen a whale - boat adrift ? '' throttl hi joy , ahab neg answer thi unexpect question ; and would then have fain board the stranger , when the stranger captain himself , have stop hi vessel ' s way , wa seen descend her side . A few keen pull , and hi boat - hook soon clinch the pequod ' s main - chain , and he sprang to the deck . immedi he wa recognis by ahab for a nantucket he knew . but no formal salut wa exchang . `` where wa he ? -- not kill ! -- not kill ! '' cri ahab , close advanc . `` how wa it ? '' It seem that somewhat late on the afternoon of the day previou , while three of the stranger ' s boat were engag with a shoal of whale , which had led them some four or five mile from the ship ; and while they were yet in swift chase to windward , the white hump and head of mobi dick had suddenli loom up out of the water , not veri far to leeward ; whereupon , the fourth rig boat -- a reserv one -- had been instantli lower in chase . after a keen sail befor the wind , thi fourth boat -- the swiftest keel of all -- seem to have succeed in fasten -- at least , as well as the man at the mast - head could tell anyth about it . In the distanc he saw the diminish dot boat ; and then a swift gleam of bubbl white water ; and after that noth more ; whenc it wa conclud that the stricken whale must have indefinit run away with hi pursuer , as often happen . there wa some apprehens , but no posit alarm , as yet . the recal signal were place in the rig ; dark came on ; and forc to pick up her three far to windward boat -- ere go in quest of the fourth one in the precis opposit direct -- the ship had not onli been necessit to leav that boat to it fate till near midnight , but , for the time , to increas her distanc from it . but the rest of her crew be at last safe aboard , she crowd all sail -- stunsail on stunsail -- after the miss boat ; kindl a fire in her tri - pot for a beacon ; and everi other man aloft on the look - out . but though when she had thu sail a suffici distanc to gain the presum place of the absent one when last seen ; though she then paus to lower her spare boat to pull all around her ; and not find anyth , had again dash on ; again paus , and lower her boat ; and though she had thu continu do till daylight ; yet not the least glimps of the miss keel had been seen . the stori told , the stranger captain immedi went on to reveal hi object in board the pequod . He desir that ship to unit with hi own in the search ; by sail over the sea some four or five mile apart , on parallel line , and so sweep a doubl horizon , as it were . `` I will wager someth now , '' whisper stubb to flask , `` that some one in that miss boat wore off that captain ' s best coat ; mayhap , hi watch -- he ' s so curs anxiou to get it back . who ever heard of two piou whale - ship cruis after one miss whale - boat in the height of the whale season ? see , flask , onli see how pale he look -- pale in the veri button of hi eye -- look -- it wasn ' t the coat -- it must have been the -- '' `` My boy , my own boy is among them . for god ' s sake -- I beg , I conjur `` -- here exclaim the stranger captain to ahab , who thu far had but icili receiv hi petit . `` for eight - and - forti hour let me charter your ship -- I will gladli pay for it , and roundli pay for it -- if there be no other way -- for eight - and - forti hour onli -- onli that -- you must , oh , you must , and you shall do thi thing . '' `` hi son ! '' cri stubb , `` oh , it ' s hi son he ' s lost ! I take back the coat and watch -- what say ahab ? We must save that boy . '' `` He ' s drown with the rest on ' em , last night , '' said the old manx sailor stand behind them ; `` I heard ; all of ye heard their spirit . '' now , as it shortli turn out , what made thi incid of the rachel ' s the more melancholi , wa the circumst , that not onli wa one of the captain ' s son among the number of the miss boat ' s crew ; but among the number of the other boat ' s crew , at the same time , but on the other hand , separ from the ship dure the dark vicissitud of the chase , there had been still anoth son ; as that for a time , the wretch father wa plung to the bottom of the cruellest perplex ; which wa onli solv for him by hi chief mate ' s instinct adopt the ordinari procedur of a whale - ship in such emerg , that is , when place between jeopard but divid boat , alway to pick up the major first . but the captain , for some unknown constitut reason , had refrain from mention all thi , and not till forc to it by ahab ' s ici did he allud to hi one yet miss boy ; a littl lad , but twelv year old , whose father with the earnest but unmisgiv hardihood of a nantucket ' s patern love , had thu earli sought to initi him in the peril and wonder of a vocat almost immemori the destini of all hi race . nor doe it unfrequ occur , that nantucket captain will send a son of such tender age away from them , for a protract three or four year ' voyag in some other ship than their own ; so that their first knowledg of a whaleman ' s career shall be unenerv by ani chanc display of a father ' s natur but untim partial , or undu apprehens and concern . meantim , now the stranger wa still beseech hi poor boon of ahab ; and ahab still stood like an anvil , receiv everi shock , but without the least quiver of hi own . `` I will not go , '' said the stranger , `` till you say aye to me . Do to me as you would have me do to you in the like case . for you too have a boy , captain ahab -- though but a child , and nestl safe at home now -- a child of your old age too -- ye , ye , you relent ; I see it -- run , run , men , now , and stand by to squar in the yard . '' `` avast , '' cri ahab -- '' touch not a rope - yarn `` ; then in a voic that prolongingli mould everi word -- '' captain gardin , I will not do it . even now I lose time . good - bye , good - bye . god bless ye , man , and may I forgiv myself , but I must go . Mr . starbuck , look at the binnacl watch , and in three minut from thi present instant warn off all stranger : then brace forward again , and let the ship sail as befor . '' hurriedli turn , with avert face , he descend into hi cabin , leav the strang captain transfix at thi uncondit and utter reject of hi so earnest suit . but start from hi enchant , gardin silent hurri to the side ; more fell than step into hi boat , and return to hi ship . soon the two ship diverg their wake ; and long as the strang vessel wa in view , she wa seen to yaw hither and thither at everi dark spot , howev small , on the sea . thi way and that her yard were swung round ; starboard and larboard , she continu to tack ; now she beat against a head sea ; and again it push her befor it ; while all the while , her mast and yard were thickli cluster with men , as three tall cherri tree , when the boy are cherri among the bough . but by her still halt cours and wind , woeful way , you plainli saw that thi ship that so wept with spray , still remain without comfort . she wa rachel , weep for her children , becaus they were not . chapter 129 the cabin . ( ahab move TO GO ON deck ; pip catch him BY the hand TO follow . ) lad , lad , I tell thee thou must not follow ahab now . the hour is come when ahab would not scare thee from him , yet would not have thee by him . there is that in thee , poor lad , which I feel too cure to my maladi . like cure like ; and for thi hunt , my maladi becom my most desir health . Do thou abid below here , where they shall serv thee , as if thou wert the captain . aye , lad , thou shalt sit here in my own screw chair ; anoth screw to it , thou must be . '' `` No , no , no ! ye have not a whole bodi , sir ; do ye but use poor me for your one lost leg ; onli tread upon me , sir ; I ask no more , so I remain a part of ye . '' `` Oh ! spite of million villain , thi make me a bigot in the fadeless fidel of man ! -- and a black ! and crazi ! -- but methink like - cure - like appli to him too ; he grow so sane again . '' `` they tell me , sir , that stubb did onc desert poor littl pip , whose drown bone now show white , for all the black of hi live skin . but I will never desert ye , sir , as stubb did him . sir , I must go with ye . '' `` If thou speakest thu to me much more , ahab ' s purpos keel up in him . I tell thee no ; it can not be . '' `` Oh good master , master , master ! `` weep so , and I will murder thee ! have a care , for ahab too is mad . listen , and thou wilt often hear my ivori foot upon the deck , and still know that I am there . and now I quit thee . thi hand ! -- met ! true art thou , lad , as the circumfer to it centr . So : god for ever bless thee ; and if it come to that , -- god for ever save thee , let what will befal . '' ( ahab goe ; pip step one step forward . ) `` here he thi instant stood ; I stand in hi air , -- but I ' m alon . now were even poor pip here I could endur it , but he ' s miss . pip ! pip ! ding , dong , ding ! who ' s seen pip ? He must be up here ; let ' s tri the door . what ? neither lock , nor bolt , nor bar ; and yet there ' s no open it . It must be the spell ; he told me to stay here : aye , and told me thi screw chair wa mine . here , then , I ' ll seat me , against the transom , in the ship ' s full middl , all her keel and her three mast befor me . here , our old sailor say , in their black seventi - four great admir sometim sit at tabl , and lord it over row of captain and lieuten . Ha ! what ' s thi ? epaulet ! epaulet ! the epaulet all come crowd ! pass round the decant ; glad to see ye ; fill up , monsieur ! what an odd feel , now , when a black boy ' s host to white men with gold lace upon their coat ! -- monsieur , have ye seen one pip ? -- a littl negro lad , five feet high , hang - dog look , and cowardli ! jump from a whale - boat onc ; -- seen him ? No ! well then , fill up again , captain , and let ' s drink shame upon all coward ! I name no name . shame upon them ! put one foot upon the tabl . shame upon all coward . -- hist ! abov there , I hear ivori -- Oh , master ! master ! I am inde down - heart when you walk over me . but here I ' ll stay , though thi stern strike rock ; and they bulg through ; and oyster come to join me . '' chapter 130 the hat . and now that at the proper time and place , after so long and wide a preliminari cruis , ahab , -- all other whale water swept -- seem to have chase hi foe into an ocean - fold , to slay him the more secur there ; now , that he found himself hard by the veri latitud and longitud where hi torment wound had been inflict ; now that a vessel had been spoken which on the veri day preced had actual encount mobi dick ; -- and now that all hi success meet with variou ship contrastingli concur to show the demoniac indiffer with which the white whale tore hi hunter , whether sin or sin against ; now it wa that there lurk a someth in the old man ' s eye , which it wa hardli suffer for feebl soul to see . As the unset polar star , which through the livelong , arctic , six month ' night sustain it pierc , steadi , central gaze ; so ahab ' s purpos now fixedli gleam down upon the constant midnight of the gloomi crew . It domin abov them so , that all their bode , doubt , misgiv , fear , were fain to hide beneath their soul , and not sprout forth a singl spear or leaf . In thi foreshadow interv too , all humor , forc or natur , vanish . stubb no more strove to rais a smile ; starbuck no more strove to check one . alik , joy and sorrow , hope and fear , seem ground to finest dust , and powder , for the time , in the clamp mortar of ahab ' s iron soul . like machin , they dumbl move about the deck , ever consciou that the old man ' s despot eye wa on them . but did you deepli scan him in hi more secret confidenti hour ; when he thought no glanc but one wa on him ; then you would have seen that even as ahab ' s eye so awe the crew ' s , the inscrut parse ' s glanc awe hi ; or somehow , at least , in some wild way , at time affect it . such an ad , glide strang began to invest the thin fedallah now ; such ceaseless shudder shook him ; that the men look dubiou at him ; half uncertain , as it seem , whether inde he were a mortal substanc , or els a tremul shadow cast upon the deck by some unseen be ' s bodi . and that shadow wa alway hover there . for not by night , even , had fedallah ever certainli been known to slumber , or go below . He would stand still for hour : but never sat or lean ; hi wan but wondrou eye did plainli say -- We two watchmen never rest . nor , at ani time , by night or day could the marin now step upon the deck , unless ahab wa befor them ; either stand in hi pivot - hole , or exactli pace the plank between two undevi limit , -- the main - mast and the mizen ; or els they saw him stand in the cabin - scuttl , -- hi live foot advanc upon the deck , as if to step ; hi hat slouch heavili over hi eye ; so that howev motionless he stood , howev the day and night were ad on , that he had not swung in hi hammock ; yet hidden beneath that slouch hat , they could never tell unerringli whether , for all thi , hi eye were realli close at time ; or whether he wa still intent scan them ; no matter , though he stood so in the scuttl for a whole hour on the stretch , and the unheed night - damp gather in bead of dew upon that stone - carv coat and hat . the cloth that the night had wet , the next day ' s sunshin dri upon him ; and so , day after day , and night after night ; he went no more beneath the plank ; whatev he want from the cabin that thing he sent for . He ate in the same open air ; that is , hi two onli meal , -- breakfast and dinner : supper he never touch ; nor reap hi beard ; which darkli grew all gnarl , as unearth root of tree blown over , which still grow idli on at nake base , though perish in the upper verdur . but though hi whole life wa now becom one watch on deck ; and though the parse ' s mystic watch wa without intermiss as hi own ; yet these two never seem to speak -- one man to the other -- unless at long interv some pass unmoment matter made it necessari . though such a potent spell seem secretli to join the twain ; openli , and to the awe - struck crew , they seem pole - like asund . If by day they chanc to speak one word ; by night , dumb men were both , so far as concern the slightest verbal interchang . At time , for longest hour , without a singl hail , they stood far part in the starlight ; ahab in hi scuttl , the parse by the mainmast ; but still fixedli gaze upon each other ; as if in the parse ahab saw hi forethrown shadow , in ahab the parse hi abandon substanc . and yet , somehow , did ahab -- in hi own proper self , as daili , hourli , and everi instant , commandingli reveal to hi subordin , -- ahab seem an independ lord ; the parse but hi slave . still again both seem yoke togeth , and an unseen tyrant drive them ; the lean shade side the solid rib . for be thi parse what he may , all rib and keel wa solid ahab . At the first faintest glimmer of the dawn , hi iron voic wa heard from aft , -- '' man the mast - head ! '' -- and all through the day , till after sunset and after twilight , the same voic everi hour , at the strike of the helmsman ' s bell , wa heard -- '' what d ' ye see ? -- sharp ! sharp ! '' but when three or four day had slide by , after meet the children - seek rachel ; and no spout had yet been seen ; the monomaniac old man seem distrust of hi crew ' s fidel ; at least , of nearli all except the pagan harpoon ; he seem to doubt , even , whether stubb and flask might not willingli overlook the sight he sought . but if these suspicion were realli hi , he sagaci refrain from verbal express them , howev hi action might seem to hint them . `` I will have the first sight of the whale myself , '' -- he said . `` aye ! ahab must have the doubloon ! and with hi own hand he rig a nest of basket bowlin ; and send a hand aloft , with a singl sheav block , to secur to the main - mast head , he receiv the two end of the downward - reev rope ; and attach one to hi basket prepar a pin for the other end , in order to fasten it at the rail . thi done , with that end yet in hi hand and stand besid the pin , he look round upon hi crew , sweep from one to the other ; paus hi glanc long upon daggoo , queequeg , tashtego ; but shun fedallah ; and then settl hi firm reli eye upon the chief mate , said , -- '' take the rope , sir -- I give it into thi hand , starbuck . '' then arrang hi person in the basket , he gave the word for them to hoist him to hi perch , starbuck be the one who secur the rope at last ; and afterward stood near it . and thu , with one hand cling round the royal mast , ahab gaze abroad upon the sea for mile and mile , -- ahead , astern , thi side , and that , -- within the wide expand circl command at so great a height . when in work with hi hand at some lofti almost isol place in the rig , which chanc to afford no foothold , the sailor at sea is hoist up to that spot , and sustain there by the rope ; under these circumst , it fasten end on deck is alway given in strict charg to some one man who ha the special watch of it . becaus in such a wilder of run rig , whose variou differ relat aloft can not alway be infal discern by what is seen of them at the deck ; and when the deck - end of these rope are be everi few minut cast down from the fasten , it would be but a natur fatal , if , unprovid with a constant watchman , the hoist sailor should by some careless of the crew be cast adrift and fall all swoop to the sea . So ahab ' s proceed in thi matter were not unusu ; the onli strang thing about them seem to be , that starbuck , almost the one onli man who had ever ventur to oppos him with anyth in the slightest degre approach to decis -- one of those too , whose faith on the look - out he had seem to doubt somewhat ; -- it wa strang , that thi wa the veri man he should select for hi watchman ; freeli give hi whole life into such an otherwis distrust person ' s hand . now , the first time ahab wa perch aloft ; ere he had been there ten minut ; one of those red - bill savag sea - hawk which so often fli incommodi close round the man mast - head of whalemen in these latitud ; one of these bird came wheel and scream round hi head in a maze of untrack swift circl . then it dart a thousand feet straight up into the air ; then spiral downward , and went eddi again round hi head . but with hi gaze fix upon the dim and distant horizon , ahab seem not to mark thi wild bird ; nor , inde , would ani one els have mark it much , it be no uncommon circumst ; onli now almost the least heed eye seem to see some sort of cun mean in almost everi sight . `` your hat , your hat , sir ! '' suddenli cri the sicilian seaman , who be post at the mizen - mast - head , stood directli behind ahab , though somewhat lower than hi level , and with a deep gulf of air divid them . but alreadi the sabl wing wa befor the old man ' s eye ; the long hook bill at hi head : with a scream , the black hawk dart away with hi prize . An eagl flew thrice round tarquin ' s head , remov hi cap to replac it , and thereupon tanaquil , hi wife , declar that tarquin would be king of rome . but onli by the replac of the cap wa that omen account good . ahab ' s hat wa never restor ; the wild hawk flew on and on with it ; far in advanc of the prow : and at last disappear ; while from the point of that disappear , a minut black spot wa dimli discern , fall from that vast height into the sea . chapter 131 the pequod meet the delight . the intens pequod sail on ; the roll wave and day went by ; the life - buoy - coffin still lightli swung ; and anoth ship , most miser misnam the delight , wa descri . As she drew nigh , all eye were fix upon her broad beam , call shear , which , in some whale - ship , cross the quarter - deck at the height of eight or nine feet ; serv to carri the spare , unrig , or disabl boat . upon the stranger ' s shear were beheld the shatter , white rib , and some few splinter plank , of what had onc been a whale - boat ; but you now saw through thi wreck , as plainli as you see through the peel , half - unhing , and bleach skeleton of a hors . `` hast seen the white whale ? '' `` look ! '' repli the hollow - cheek captain from hi taffrail ; and with hi trumpet he point to the wreck . `` hast kill him ? '' `` the harpoon is not yet forg that ever will do that , '' answer the other , sadli glanc upon a round hammock on the deck , whose gather side some noiseless sailor were busi in sew togeth . `` not forg ! '' and snatch perth ' s level iron from the crotch , ahab held it out , exclaim -- '' look ye , nantucket ; here in thi hand I hold hi death ! temper in blood , and temper by lightn are these barb ; and I swear to temper them tripli in that hot place behind the fin , where the white whale most feel hi accurs life ! '' `` then god keep thee , old man -- see ' st thou that `` -- point to the hammock -- '' I buri but one of five stout men , who were aliv onli yesterday ; but were dead ere night . onli that one I buri ; the rest were buri befor they die ; you sail upon their tomb . '' then turn to hi crew -- '' are ye readi there ? place the plank then on the rail , and lift the bodi ; so , then -- Oh ! god `` -- advanc toward the hammock with uplift hand -- '' may the resurrect and the life -- '' `` brace forward ! Up helm ! '' cri ahab like lightn to hi men . but the suddenli start pequod wa not quick enough to escap the sound of the splash that the corps soon made as it struck the sea ; not so quick , inde , but that some of the fli bubbl might have sprinkl her hull with their ghostli baptism . As ahab now glide from the deject delight , the strang life - buoy hang at the pequod ' s stern came into conspicu relief . `` Ha ! yonder ! look yonder , men ! '' cri a forebod voic in her wake . `` In vain , oh , ye stranger , ye fli our sad burial ; ye but turn us your taffrail to show us your coffin ! '' chapter 132 the symphoni . It wa a clear steel - blue day . the firmament of air and sea were hardli separ in that all - pervad azur ; onli , the pensiv air wa transpar pure and soft , with a woman ' s look , and the robust and man - like sea heav with long , strong , linger swell , as samson ' s chest in hi sleep . hither , and thither , on high , glide the snow - white wing of small , unspeckl bird ; these were the gentl thought of the feminin air ; but to and fro in the deep , far down in the bottomless blue , rush mighti leviathan , sword - fish , and shark ; and these were the strong , troubl , murder think of the masculin sea . but though thu contrast within , the contrast wa onli in shade and shadow without ; those two seem one ; it wa onli the sex , as it were , that distinguish them . aloft , like a royal czar and king , the sun seem give thi gentl air to thi bold and roll sea ; even as bride to groom . and at the girdl line of the horizon , a soft and tremul motion -- most seen here at the equat -- denot the fond , throb trust , the love alarm , with which the poor bride gave her bosom away . tie up and twist ; gnarl and knot with wrinkl ; haggardli firm and unyield ; hi eye glow like coal , that still glow in the ash of ruin ; untott ahab stood forth in the clear of the morn ; lift hi splinter helmet of a brow to the fair girl ' s forehead of heaven . Oh , immort infanc , and innoc of the azur ! invis wing creatur that frolic all round us ! sweet childhood of air and sky ! how oblivi were ye of old ahab ' s close - coil woe ! but so have I seen littl miriam and martha , laugh - eye elv , heedlessli gambol around their old sire ; sport with the circl of sing lock which grew on the marg of that burnt - out crater of hi brain . slowli cross the deck from the scuttl , ahab lean over the side and watch how hi shadow in the water sank and sank to hi gaze , the more and the more that he strove to pierc the profund . but the love aroma in that enchant air did at last seem to dispel , for a moment , the canker thing in hi soul . that glad , happi air , that winsom sky , did at last stroke and caress him ; the step - mother world , so long cruel -- forbid -- now threw affection arm round hi stubborn neck , and did seem to joyous sob over him , as if over one , that howev wil and er , she could yet find it in her heart to save and to bless . from beneath hi slouch hat ahab drop a tear into the sea ; nor did all the pacif contain such wealth as that one wee drop . starbuck saw the old man ; saw him , how he heavili lean over the side ; and he seem to hear in hi own true heart the measureless sob that stole out of the centr of the seren around . care not to touch him , or be notic by him , he yet drew near to him , and stood there . ahab turn . `` starbuck ! '' `` sir . '' `` Oh , starbuck ! it is a mild , mild wind , and a mild look sky . On such a day -- veri much such a sweet as thi -- I struck my first whale -- a boy - harpoon of eighteen ! forti -- forti -- forti year ago ! -- ago ! forti year of continu whale ! forti year of privat , and peril , and storm - time ! forti year on the pitiless sea ! for forti year ha ahab forsaken the peac land , for forti year to make war on the horror of the deep ! aye and ye , starbuck , out of those forti year I have not spent three ashor . when I think of thi life I have led ; the desol of solitud it ha been ; the mason , wall - town of a captain ' s exclus , which admit but small entranc to ani sympathi from the green countri without -- oh , weari ! heavi ! guinea - coast slaveri of solitari command ! -- when I think of all thi ; onli half - suspect , not so keenli known to me befor -- and how for forti year I have fed upon dri salt fare -- fit emblem of the dri nourish of my soil ! -- when the poorest landsman ha had fresh fruit to hi daili hand , and broken the world ' s fresh bread to my mouldi crust -- away , whole ocean away , from that young girl - wife I wed past fifti , and sail for cape horn the next day , leav but one dent in my marriag pillow -- wife ? wife ? -- rather a widow with her husband aliv ! aye , I widow that poor girl when I marri her , starbuck ; and then , the mad , the frenzi , the boil blood and the smoke brow , with which , for a thousand lower old ahab ha furious , foamingli chase hi prey -- more a demon than a man ! -- aye , aye ! what a forti year ' fool -- fool -- old fool , ha old ahab been ! whi thi strife of the chase ? whi weari , and palsi the arm at the oar , and the iron , and the lanc ? how the richer or better is ahab now ? behold . Oh , starbuck ! is it not hard , that with thi weari load I bear , one poor leg should have been snatch from under me ? here , brush thi old hair asid ; it blind me , that I seem to weep . lock so grey did never grow but from out some ash ! but do I look veri old , so veri , veri old , starbuck ? I feel deadli faint , bow , and hump , as though I were adam , stagger beneath the pile centuri sinc paradis . god ! god ! god ! -- crack my heart ! -- stave my brain ! -- mockeri ! mockeri ! bitter , bite mockeri of grey hair , have I live enough joy to wear ye ; and seem and feel thu intoler old ? close ! stand close to me , starbuck ; let me look into a human eye ; it is better than to gaze into sea or sky ; better than to gaze upon god . By the green land ; by the bright hearth - stone ! thi is the magic glass , man ; I see my wife and my child in thine eye . No , no ; stay on board , on board ! -- lower not when I do ; when brand ahab give chase to mobi dick . that hazard shall not be thine . No , no ! not with the far away home I see in that eye ! '' `` Oh , my captain ! my captain ! nobl soul ! grand old heart , after all ! whi should ani one give chase to that hate fish ! away with me ! let us fli these deadli water ! let us home ! wife and child , too , are starbuck ' s -- wife and child of hi brotherli , sisterli , play - fellow youth ; even as thine , sir , are the wife and child of thi love , long , patern old age ! away ! let us away ! -- thi instant let me alter the cours ! how cheerili , how hilari , O my captain , would we bowl on our way to see old nantucket again ! I think , sir , they have some such mild blue day , even as thi , in nantucket . '' `` they have , they have . I have seen them -- some summer day in the morn . about thi time -- ye , it is hi noon nap now -- the boy vivaci wake ; sit up in bed ; and hi mother tell him of me , of cannib old me ; how I am abroad upon the deep , but will yet come back to danc him again . '' `` ' ti my mari , my mari herself ! she promis that my boy , everi morn , should be carri to the hill to catch the first glimps of hi father ' s sail ! ye , ye ! no more ! it is done ! we head for nantucket ! come , my captain , studi out the cours , and let us away ! see , see ! the boy ' s face from the window ! the boy ' s hand on the hill ! '' but ahab ' s glanc wa avert ; like a blight fruit tree he shook , and cast hi last , cinder appl to the soil . `` what is it , what nameless , inscrut , unearthli thing is it ; what cozen , hidden lord and master , and cruel , remorseless emperor command me ; that against all natur love and long , I so keep push , and crowd , and jam myself on all the time ; recklessli make me readi to do what in my own proper , natur heart , I durst not so much as dare ? Is ahab , ahab ? Is it I , god , or who , that lift thi arm ? but if the great sun move not of himself ; but is as an errand - boy in heaven ; nor one singl star can revolv , but by some invis power ; how then can thi one small heart beat ; thi one small brain think thought ; unless god doe that beat , doe that think , doe that live , and not I . By heaven , man , we are turn round and round in thi world , like yonder windlass , and fate is the handspik . and all the time , lo ! that smile sky , and thi unsound sea ! look ! see yon albicor ! who put it into him to chase and fang that fli - fish ? where do murder go , man ! who ' s to doom , when the judg himself is drag to the bar ? but it is a mild , mild wind , and a mild look sky ; and the air smell now , as if it blew from a far - away meadow ; they have been make hay somewher under the slope of the and , starbuck , and the mower are sleep among the new - mown hay . sleep ? aye , toil we how we may , we all sleep at last on the field . sleep ? aye , and rust amid green ; as last year ' s scyth flung down , and left in the half - cut swath -- starbuck ! '' but blanch to a corps ' s hue with despair , the mate had stolen away . ahab cross the deck to gaze over on the other side ; but start at two reflect , fix eye in the water there . fedallah wa motionlessli lean over the same rail . chapter 133 the chase -- first day . that night , in the mid - watch , when the old man -- as hi wont at interv -- step forth from the scuttl in which he lean , and went to hi pivot - hole , he suddenli thrust out hi face fierc , snuf up the sea air as a sagaci ship ' s dog will , in draw nigh to some barbar isl . He declar that a whale must be near . soon that peculiar odor , sometim to a great distanc given forth by the live sperm whale , wa palpabl to all the watch ; nor wa ani marin surpris when , after inspect the compass , and then the dog - vane , and then ascertain the precis bear of the odor as nearli as possibl , ahab rapidli order the ship ' s cours to be slightli alter , and the sail to be shorten . the acut polici dictat these movement wa suffici vindic at daybreak , by the sight of a long sleek on the sea directli and lengthwis ahead , smooth as oil , and resembl in the pleat wateri wrinkl border it , the polish metal - like mark of some swift tide - rip , at the mouth of a deep , rapid stream . `` man the mast - head ! call all hand ! '' thunder with the butt of three club handspik on the forecastl deck , daggoo rous the sleeper with such judgment clap that they seem to exhal from the scuttl , so instantan did they appear with their cloth in their hand . `` what d ' ye see ? '' cri ahab , flatten hi face to the sky . `` noth , noth sir ! '' wa the sound hail down in repli . `` T ' gallant sail ! -- stunsail ! alow and aloft , and on both side ! '' all sail be set , he now cast loos the life - line , reserv for sway him to the main royal - mast head ; and in a few moment they were hoist him thither , when , while but two third of the way aloft , and while peer ahead through the horizont vacanc between the main - top - sail and top - gallant - sail , he rais a gull - like cri in the air . `` there she blow ! -- there she blow ! A hump like a snow - hill ! It is mobi dick ! '' fire by the cri which seem simultan taken up by the three look - out , the men on deck rush to the rig to behold the famou whale they had so long been pursu . ahab had now gain hi final perch , some feet abov the other look - out , tashtego stand just beneath him on the cap of the top - gallant - mast , so that the indian ' s head wa almost on a level with ahab ' s heel . from thi height the whale wa now seen some mile or so ahead , at everi roll of the sea reveal hi high sparkl hump , and regularli jet hi silent spout into the air . To the credul marin it seem the same silent spout they had so long ago beheld in the moonlit atlant and indian ocean . `` and did none of ye see it befor ? '' cri ahab , hail the perch men all around him . `` I saw him almost that same instant , sir , that captain ahab did , and I cri out , '' said tashtego . `` not the same instant ; not the same -- no , the doubloon is mine , fate reserv the doubloon for me . I onli ; none of ye could have rais the white whale first . there she blow ! -- there she blow ! -- there she blow ! there again ! -- there again ! '' he cri , in long - drawn , linger , method tone , attun to the gradual prolong of the whale ' s visibl jet . `` He ' s go to sound ! In stunsail ! down top - gallant - sail ! stand by three boat . Mr . starbuck , rememb , stay on board , and keep the ship . helm there ! luff , luff a point ! So ; steadi , man , steadi ! there go fluke ! No , no ; onli black water ! all readi the boat there ? stand by , stand by ! lower me , Mr . starbuck ; lower , lower , -- quick , quicker ! '' and he slid through the air to the deck . `` He is head straight to leeward , sir , '' cri stubb , `` right away from us ; can not have seen the ship yet . '' `` Be dumb , man ! stand by the brace ! hard down the helm ! -- brace up ! shiver her ! -- shiver her ! -- So ; well that ! boat , boat ! '' soon all the boat but starbuck ' s were drop ; all the boat - sail set -- all the paddl pli ; with rippl swift , shoot to leeward ; and ahab head the onset . A pale , death - glimmer lit up fedallah ' s sunken eye ; a hideou motion gnaw hi mouth . like noiseless nautilu shell , their light prow sped through the sea ; but onli slowli they near the foe . As they near him , the ocean grew still more smooth ; seem draw a carpet over it wave ; seem a noon - meadow , so seren it spread . At length the breathless hunter came so nigh hi seemingli unsuspect prey , that hi entir dazzl hump wa distinctli visibl , slide along the sea as if an isol thing , and continu set in a revolv ring of finest , fleeci , greenish foam . He saw the vast , involv wrinkl of the slightli project head beyond . befor it , far out on the soft turkish - rug water , went the glisten white shadow from hi broad , milki forehead , a music rippl play accompani the shade ; and behind , the blue water interchang flow over into the move valley of hi steadi wake ; and on either hand bright bubbl aros and danc by hi side . but these were broken again by the light toe of hundr of gay fowl softli feather the sea , altern with their fit flight ; and like to some flag - staff rise from the paint hull of an argosi , the tall but shatter pole of a recent lanc project from the white whale ' s back ; and at interv one of the cloud of soft - to fowl hover , and to and fro skim like a canopi over the fish , silent perch and rock on thi pole , the long tail feather stream like pennon . A gentl joyous -- a mighti mild of repos in swift , invest the glide whale . not the white bull jupit swim away with ravish europa cling to hi grace horn ; hi love , leer eye sideway intent upon the maid ; with smooth bewitch fleet , rippl straight for the nuptial bower in crete ; not jove , not that great majesti suprem ! did surpass the glorifi white whale as he so divin swam . On each soft side -- coincid with the part swell , that but onc leav him , then flow so wide away -- on each bright side , the whale shed off entic . No wonder there had been some among the hunter who namelessli transport and allur by all thi seren , had ventur to assail it ; but had fatal found that quietud but the vestur of tornado . yet calm , entic calm , oh , whale ! thou glidest on , to all who for the first time eye thee , no matter how mani in that same way thou may ' st have bejuggl and destroy befor . and thu , through the seren tranquil of the tropic sea , among wave whose hand - clap were suspend by exceed raptur , mobi dick move on , still withhold from sight the full terror of hi submerg trunk , entir hide the wrench hideous of hi jaw . but soon the fore part of him slowli rose from the water ; for an instant hi whole marbleiz bodi form a high arch , like virginia ' s natur bridg , and warningli wave hi banner fluke in the air , the grand god reveal himself , sound , and went out of sight . hoveringli halt , and dip on the wing , the white sea - fowl longingli linger over the agit pool that he left . with oar apeak , and paddl down , the sheet of their sail adrift , the three boat now stilli float , await mobi dick ' s reappear . `` An hour , '' said ahab , stand root in hi boat ' s stern ; and he gaze beyond the whale ' s place , toward the dim blue space and wide woo vacanc to leeward . It wa onli an instant ; for again hi eye seem whirl round in hi head as he swept the wateri circl . the breez now freshen ; the sea began to swell . `` the bird ! -- the bird ! '' cri tashtego . In long indian file , as when heron take wing , the white bird were now all fli toward ahab ' s boat ; and when within a few yard began flutter over the water there , wheel round and round , with joyou , expect cri . their vision wa keener than man ' s ; ahab could discov no sign in the sea . but suddenli as he peer down and down into it depth , he profoundli saw a white live spot no bigger than a white weasel , with wonder celer upris , and magnifi as it rose , till it turn , and then there were plainli reveal two long crook row of white , glisten teeth , float up from the undiscover bottom . It wa mobi dick ' s open mouth and scroll jaw ; hi vast , shadow bulk still half blend with the blue of the sea . the glitter mouth yawn beneath the boat like an open - door marbl tomb ; and give one sidelong sweep with hi steer oar , ahab whirl the craft asid from thi tremend apparit . then , call upon fedallah to chang place with him , went forward to the bow , and seiz perth ' s harpoon , command hi crew to grasp their oar and stand by to stern . now , by reason of thi time spin round the boat upon it axi , it bow , by anticip , wa made to face the whale ' s head while yet under water . but as if perceiv thi stratagem , mobi dick , with that malici intellig ascrib to him , sidelingli transplant himself , as it were , in an instant , shoot hi pleat head lengthwis beneath the boat . through and through ; through everi plank and each rib , it thrill for an instant , the whale obliqu lie on hi back , in the manner of a bite shark , slowli and feelingli take it bow full within hi mouth , so that the long , narrow , scroll lower jaw curl high up into the open air , and one of the teeth caught in a row - lock . the bluish pearl - white of the insid of the jaw wa within six inch of ahab ' s head , and reach higher than that . In thi attitud the white whale now shook the slight cedar as a mildli cruel cat her mous . with unastonish eye fedallah gaze , and cross hi arm ; but the tiger - yellow crew were tumbl over each other ' s head to gain the uttermost stern . and now , while both elast gunwal were spring in and out , as the whale dalli with the doom craft in thi devilish way ; and from hi bodi be submerg beneath the boat , he could not be dart at from the bow , for the bow were almost insid of him , as it were ; and while the other boat involuntarili paus , as befor a quick crisi imposs to withstand , then it wa that monomaniac ahab , furiou with thi tantal vicin of hi foe , which place him all aliv and helpless in the veri jaw he hate ; frenzi with all thi , he seiz the long bone with hi nake hand , and wildli strove to wrench it from it gripe . As now he thu vainli strove , the jaw slip from him ; the frail gunwal bent in , collaps , and snap , as both jaw , like an enorm shear , slide further aft , bit the craft complet in twain , and lock themselv fast again in the sea , midway between the two float wreck . these float asid , the broken end droop , the crew at the stern - wreck cling to the gunwal , and strive to hold fast to the oar to lash them across . At that prelud moment , ere the boat wa yet snap , ahab , the first to perceiv the whale ' s intent , by the crafti uprais of hi head , a movement that loos hi hold for the time ; at that moment hi hand had made one final effort to push the boat out of the bite . but onli slip further into the whale ' s mouth , and tilt over sideway as it slip , the boat had shaken off hi hold on the jaw ; spill him out of it , as he lean to the push ; and so he fell flat - face upon the sea . ripplingli withdraw from hi prey , mobi dick now lay at a littl distanc , vertic thrust hi oblong white head up and down in the billow ; and at the same time slowli revolv hi whole spindl bodi ; so that when hi vast wrinkl forehead rose -- some twenti or more feet out of the water -- the now rise swell , with all their confluent wave , dazzlingli broke against it ; vindict toss their shiver spray still higher into the air . * So , in a gale , the but half baffl channel billow onli recoil from the base of the eddyston , triumphantli to overleap it summit with their scud . * thi motion is peculiar to the sperm whale . It receiv it design ( pitchpol ) from it be liken to that preliminari up - and - down pois of the whale - lanc , in the exercis call pitchpol , previous describ . By thi motion the whale must best and most comprehens view whatev object may be encircl him . but soon resum hi horizont attitud , mobi dick swam swiftli round and round the wreck crew ; sideway churn the water in hi veng wake , as if lash himself up to still anoth and more deadli assault . the sight of the splinter boat seem to madden him , as the blood of grape and mulberri cast befor antiochu ' s eleph in the book of maccabe . meanwhil ahab half smother in the foam of the whale ' s insol tail , and too much of a crippl to swim , -- though he could still keep afloat , even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that ; helpless ahab ' s head wa seen , like a toss bubbl which the least chanc shock might burst . from the boat ' s fragmentari stern , fedallah incuri and mildli eye him ; the cling crew , at the other drift end , could not succor him ; more than enough wa it for them to look to themselv . for so revolvingli appal wa the white whale ' s aspect , and so planetarili swift the ever - contract circl he made , that he seem horizont swoop upon them . and though the other boat , unharm , still hover hard by ; still they dare not pull into the eddi to strike , lest that should be the signal for the instant destruct of the jeopard castaway , ahab and all ; nor in that case could they themselv hope to escap . with strain eye , then , they remain on the outer edg of the dire zone , whose centr had now becom the old man ' s head . meantim , from the begin all thi had been descri from the ship ' s mast head ; and squar her yard , she had born down upon the scene ; and wa now so nigh , that ahab in the water hail her ! -- '' sail on the `` -- but that moment a break sea dash on him from mobi dick , and whelm him for the time . but struggl out of it again , and chanc to rise on a tower crest , he shout , -- '' sail on the whale ! -- drive him off ! '' the pequod ' s prow were point ; and break up the charm circl , she effectu part the white whale from hi victim . As he sullenli swam off , the boat flew to the rescu . drag into stubb ' s boat with blood - shot , blind eye , the white brine cake in hi wrinkl ; the long tension of ahab ' s bodili strength did crack , and helplessli he yield to hi bodi ' s doom : for a time , lie all crush in the bottom of stubb ' s boat , like one trodden under foot of herd of eleph . far inland , nameless wail came from him , as desol sound from out ravin . but thi intens of hi physic prostrat did but so much the more abbrevi it . In an instant ' s compass , great heart sometim condens to one deep pang , the sum total of those shallow pain kindli diffus through feebler men ' s whole live . and so , such heart , though summari in each one suffer ; still , if the god decre it , in their life - time aggreg a whole age of woe , wholli made up of instantan intens ; for even in their pointless centr , those nobl natur contain the entir circumfer of inferior soul . `` the harpoon , '' said ahab , half way rise , and draggingli lean on one bend arm -- '' is it safe ? '' `` aye , sir , for it wa not dart ; thi is it , '' said stubb , show it . `` lay it befor me ; -- ani miss men ? '' `` one , two , three , four , five ; -- there were five oar , sir , and here are five men . '' `` that ' s good . -- help me , man ; I wish to stand . So , so , I see him ! there ! there ! go to leeward still ; what a leap spout ! -- hand off from me ! the etern sap run up in ahab ' s bone again ! set the sail ; out oar ; the helm ! '' It is often the case that when a boat is stove , it crew , be pick up by anoth boat , help to work that second boat ; and the chase is thu continu with what is call doubl - bank oar . It wa thu now . but the ad power of the boat did not equal the ad power of the whale , for he seem to have trebl - bank hi everi fin ; swim with a veloc which plainli show , that if now , under these circumst , push on , the chase would prove an indefinit prolong , if not a hopeless one ; nor could ani crew endur for so long a period , such an unintermit , intens strain at the oar ; a thing bare toler onli in some one brief vicissitud . the ship itself , then , as it sometim happen , offer the most promis intermedi mean of overtak the chase . accordingli , the boat now made for her , and were soon sway up to their crane -- the two part of the wreck boat have been previous secur by her -- and then hoist everyth to her side , and stack her canva high up , and sideway outstretch it with stun - sail , like the doubl - joint wing of an albatross ; the pequod bore down in the leeward wake of mobi - dick . At the well known , method interv , the whale ' s glitter spout wa regularli announc from the man mast - head ; and when he would be report as just gone down , ahab would take the time , and then pace the deck , binnacl - watch in hand , so soon as the last second of the allot hour expir , hi voic wa heard . -- '' whose is the doubloon now ? D ' ye see him ? '' and if the repli wa , No , sir ! straightway he command them to lift him to hi perch . In thi way the day wore on ; ahab , now aloft and motionless ; anon , unrestingli pace the plank . As he wa thu walk , utter no sound , except to hail the men aloft , or to bid them hoist a sail still higher , or to spread one to a still greater breadth -- thu to and fro pace , beneath hi slouch hat , at everi turn he pass hi own wreck boat , which had been drop upon the quarter - deck , and lay there revers ; broken bow to shatter stern . At last he paus befor it ; and as in an alreadi over - cloud sky fresh troop of cloud will sometim sail across , so over the old man ' s face there now stole some such ad gloom as thi . stubb saw him paus ; and perhap intend , not vainli , though , to evinc hi own unab fortitud , and thu keep up a valiant place in hi captain ' s mind , he advanc , and eye the wreck exclaim -- '' the thistl the ass refus ; it prick hi mouth too keenli , sir ; ha ! ha ! '' `` what soulless thing is thi that laugh befor a wreck ? man , man ! did I not know thee brave as fearless fire ( and as mechan ) I could swear thou wert a poltroon . groan nor laugh should be heard befor a wreck . '' `` aye , sir , '' said starbuck draw near , `` ' ti a solemn sight ; an omen , and an ill one . '' `` omen ? omen ? -- the dictionari ! If the god think to speak outright to man , they will honour speak outright ; not shake their head , and give an old wive ' darkl hint . -- begon ! Ye two are the opposit pole of one thing ; starbuck is stubb revers , and stubb is starbuck ; and ye two are all mankind ; and ahab stand alon among the million of the peopl earth , nor god nor men hi neighbor ! cold , cold -- I shiver ! -- how now ? aloft there ! D ' ye see him ? sing out for everi spout , though he spout ten time a second ! '' the day wa nearli done ; onli the hem of hi golden robe wa rustl . soon , it wa almost dark , but the look - out men still remain unset . `` can ' t see the spout now , sir ; -- too dark `` -- cri a voic from the air . `` how head when last seen ? '' `` As befor , sir , -- straight to leeward . '' `` good ! he will travel slower now ' ti night . down royal and top - gallant stun - sail , Mr . starbuck . We must not run over him befor morn ; he ' s make a passag now , and may heav - to a while . helm there ! keep her full befor the wind ! -- aloft ! come down ! -- Mr . stubb , send a fresh hand to the fore - mast head , and see it man till morn . '' -- then advanc toward the doubloon in the main - mast -- '' men , thi gold is mine , for I earn it ; but I shall let it abid here till the white whale is dead ; and then , whosoev of ye first rais him , upon the day he shall be kill , thi gold is that man ' s ; and if on that day I shall again rais him , then , ten time it sum shall be divid among all of ye ! away now ! -- the deck is thine , sir ! '' and so say , he place himself half way within the scuttl , and slouch hi hat , stood there till dawn , except when at interv rous himself to see how the night wore on . chapter 134 the chase -- second day . At day - break , the three mast - head were punctual man afresh . `` D ' ye see him ? '' cri ahab after allow a littl space for the light to spread . `` see noth , sir . '' `` turn up all hand and make sail ! he travel faster than I thought for ; -- the top - gallant sail ! -- aye , they should have been kept on her all night . but no matter -- ' ti but rest for the rush . '' here be it said , that thi pertinaci pursuit of one particular whale , continu through day into night , and through night into day , is a thing by no mean unpreced in the south sea fisheri . for such is the wonder skill , prescienc of experi , and invinc confid acquir by some great natur genius among the nantucket command ; that from the simpl observ of a whale when last descri , they will , under certain given circumst , pretti accur foretel both the direct in which he will continu to swim for a time , while out of sight , as well as hi probabl rate of progress dure that period . and , in these case , somewhat as a pilot , when about lose sight of a coast , whose gener trend he well know , and which he desir shortli to return to again , but at some further point ; like as thi pilot stand by hi compass , and take the precis bear of the cape at present visibl , in order the more certainli to hit aright the remot , unseen headland , eventu to be visit : so doe the fisherman , at hi compass , with the whale ; for after be chase , and dilig mark , through sever hour of daylight , then , when night obscur the fish , the creatur ' s futur wake through the dark is almost as establish to the sagaci mind of the hunter , as the pilot ' s coast is to him . So that to thi hunter ' s wondrou skill , the proverbi evanesc of a thing writ in water , a wake , is to all desir purpos well nigh as reliabl as the steadfast land . and as the mighti iron leviathan of the modern railway is so familiarli known in it everi pace , that , with watch in their hand , men time hi rate as doctor that of a babi ' s puls ; and lightli say of it , the up train or the down train will reach such or such a spot , at such or such an hour ; even so , almost , there are occas when these nantucket time that other leviathan of the deep , accord to the observ humor of hi speed ; and say to themselv , so mani hour henc thi whale will have gone two hundr mile , will have about reach thi or that degre of latitud or longitud . but to render thi acut at all success in the end , the wind and the sea must be the whaleman ' s alli ; for of what present avail to the becalm or windbound marin is the skill that assur him he is exactli nineti - three leagu and a quarter from hi port ? infer from these statement , are mani collater subtil matter touch the chase of whale . the ship tore on ; leav such a furrow in the sea as when a cannon - ball , missent , becom a plough - share and turn up the level field . `` By salt and hemp ! '' cri stubb , `` but thi swift motion of the deck creep up one ' s leg and tingl at the heart . thi ship and I are two brave fellow ! -- Ha , ha ! some one take me up , and launch me , spine - wise , on the sea , -- for by live - oak ! my spine ' s a keel . Ha , ha ! we go the gait that leav no dust behind ! '' `` there she blow -- she blow ! -- she blow ! -- right ahead ! '' wa now the mast - head cri . `` aye , aye ! '' cri stubb , `` I knew it -- ye can ' t escap -- blow on and split your spout , O whale ! the mad fiend himself is after ye ! blow your trump -- blister your lung ! -- ahab will dam off your blood , as a miller shut hi waterg upon the stream ! '' and stubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew . the frenzi of the chase had by thi time work them bubblingli up , like old wine work anew . whatev pale fear and forebod some of them might have felt befor ; these were not onli now kept out of sight through the grow awe of ahab , but they were broken up , and on all side rout , as timid prairi hare that scatter befor the bound bison . the hand of fate had snatch all their soul ; and by the stir peril of the previou day ; the rack of the past night ' s suspens ; the fix , unfear , blind , reckless way in which their wild craft went plung toward it fli mark ; by all these thing , their heart were bowl along . the wind that made great belli of their sail , and rush the vessel on by arm invis as irresist ; thi seem the symbol of that unseen agenc which so enslav them to the race . they were one man , not thirti . for as the one ship that held them all ; though it wa put togeth of all contrast thing -- oak , and mapl , and pine wood ; iron , and pitch , and hemp -- yet all these ran into each other in the one concret hull , which shot on it way , both balanc and direct by the long central keel ; even so , all the individu of the crew , thi man ' s valor , that man ' s fear ; guilt and guilti , all varieti were weld into one , and were all direct to that fatal goal which ahab their one lord and keel did point to . the rig live . the mast - head , like the top of tall palm , were outspreadingli tuft with arm and leg . cling to a spar with one hand , some reach forth the other with impati wave ; other , shade their eye from the vivid sunlight , sat far out on the rock yard ; all the spar in full bear of mortal , readi and ripe for their fate . Ah ! how they still strove through that infinit blueness to seek out the thing that might destroy them ! `` whi sing ye not out for him , if ye see him ? '' cri ahab , when , after the laps of some minut sinc the first cri , no more had been heard . `` sway me up , men ; ye have been deceiv ; not mobi dick cast one odd jet that way , and then disappear . '' It wa even so ; in their headlong eager , the men had mistaken some other thing for the whale - spout , as the event itself soon prove ; for hardli had ahab reach hi perch ; hardli wa the rope belay to it pin on deck , when he struck the key - note to an orchestra , that made the air vibrat as with the combin discharg of rifl . the triumphant halloo of thirti buckskin lung wa heard , as -- much nearer to the ship than the place of the imaginari jet , less than a mile ahead -- mobi dick bodili burst into view ! for not by ani calm and indol spout ; not by the peaceabl gush of that mystic fountain in hi head , did the white whale now reveal hi vicin ; but by the far more wondrou phenomenon of breach . rise with hi utmost veloc from the furthest depth , the sperm whale thu boom hi entir bulk into the pure element of air , and pile up a mountain of dazzl foam , show hi place to the distanc of seven mile and more . In those moment , the torn , enrag wave he shake off , seem hi mane ; in some case , thi breach is hi act of defianc . `` there she breach ! there she breach ! '' wa the cri , as in hi immeasur bravado the white whale toss himself salmon - like to heaven . So suddenli seen in the blue plain of the sea , and reliev against the still bluer margin of the sky , the spray that he rais , for the moment , intoler glitter and glare like a glacier ; and stood there gradual fade and fade away from it first sparkl intens , to the dim misti of an advanc shower in a vale . `` aye , breach your last to the sun , mobi dick ! '' cri ahab , `` thi hour and thi harpoon are at hand ! -- down ! down all of ye , but one man at the fore . the boat ! -- stand by ! '' unmind of the tediou rope - ladder of the shroud , the men , like shoot star , slid to the deck , by the isol backstay and halyard ; while ahab , less dartingli , but still rapidli wa drop from hi perch . `` lower away , '' he cri , so soon as he had reach hi boat -- a spare one , rig the afternoon previou . `` Mr . starbuck , the ship is thine -- keep away from the boat , but keep near them . lower , all ! '' As if to strike a quick terror into them , by thi time be the first assail himself , mobi dick had turn , and wa now come for the three crew . ahab ' s boat wa central ; and cheer hi men , he told them he would take the whale head - and - head , -- that is , pull straight up to hi forehead , -- a not uncommon thing ; for when within a certain limit , such a cours exclud the come onset from the whale ' s sidelong vision . but ere that close limit wa gain , and while yet all three boat were plain as the ship ' s three mast to hi eye ; the white whale churn himself into furiou speed , almost in an instant as it were , rush among the boat with open jaw , and a lash tail , offer appal battl on everi side ; and heedless of the iron dart at him from everi boat , seem onli intent on annihil each separ plank of which those boat were made . but skil manoeuvr , incessantli wheel like train charger in the field ; the boat for a while elud him ; though , at time , but by a plank ' s breadth ; while all the time , ahab ' s unearthli slogan tore everi other cri but hi to shred . but at last in hi untrac evolut , the white whale so cross and recross , and in a thousand way entangl the slack of the three line now fast to him , that they foreshorten , and , of themselv , warp the devot boat toward the plant iron in him ; though now for a moment the whale drew asid a littl , as if to ralli for a more tremend charg . seiz that opportun , ahab first paid out more line : and then wa rapidli haul and jerk in upon it again -- hope that way to disencumb it of some snarl -- when lo ! -- a sight more savag than the embattl teeth of shark ! caught and twist -- corkscrew in the maze of the line , loos harpoon and lanc , with all their bristl barb and point , came flash and drip up to the chock in the bow of ahab ' s boat . onli one thing could be done . seiz the boat - knife , he critic reach within -- through -- and then , without -- the ray of steel ; drag in the line beyond , pass it , inboard , to the bowsman , and then , twice sunder the rope near the chock -- drop the intercept fagot of steel into the sea ; and wa all fast again . that instant , the white whale made a sudden rush among the remain tangl of the other line ; by so do , irresist drag the more involv boat of stubb and flask toward hi fluke ; dash them togeth like two roll husk on a surf - beaten beach , and then , dive down into the sea , disappear in a boil maelstrom , in which , for a space , the odor cedar chip of the wreck danc round and round , like the grate nutmeg in a swiftli stir bowl of punch . while the two crew were yet circl in the water , reach out after the revolv line - tub , oar , and other float furnitur , while aslop littl flask bob up and down like an empti vial , twitch hi leg upward to escap the dread jaw of shark ; and stubb wa lustili sing out for some one to ladl him up ; and while the old man ' s line -- now part -- admit of hi pull into the creami pool to rescu whom he could ; -- in that wild simultan of a thousand concret peril , -- ahab ' s yet unstricken boat seem drawn up toward heaven by invis wire , -- as , arrow - like , shoot perpendicularli from the sea , the white whale dash hi broad forehead against it bottom , and sent it , turn over and over , into the air ; till it fell again -- gunwal downward -- and ahab and hi men struggl out from under it , like seal from a sea - side cave . the first upris momentum of the whale -- modifi it direct as he struck the surfac -- involuntarili launch him along it , to a littl distanc from the centr of the destruct he had made ; and with hi back to it , he now lay for a moment slowli feel with hi fluke from side to side ; and whenev a stray oar , bit of plank , the least chip or crumb of the boat touch hi skin , hi tail swiftli drew back , and came sideway smite the sea . but soon , as if satisfi that hi work for that time wa done , he push hi pleat forehead through the ocean , and trail after him the intertangl line , continu hi leeward way at a travel ' s method pace . As befor , the attent ship have descri the whole fight , again came bear down to the rescu , and drop a boat , pick up the float marin , tub , oar , and whatev els could be caught at , and safe land them on her deck . some sprain shoulder , wrist , and ankl ; livid contus ; wrench harpoon and lanc ; inextric intricaci of rope ; shatter oar and plank ; all these were there ; but no fatal or even seriou ill seem to have befallen ani one . As with fedallah the day befor , so ahab wa now found grimli cling to hi boat ' s broken half , which afford a compar easi float ; nor did it so exhaust him as the previou day ' s mishap . but when he wa help to the deck , all eye were fasten upon him ; as instead of stand by himself he still half - hung upon the shoulder of starbuck , who had thu far been the foremost to assist him . hi ivori leg had been snap off , leav but one short sharp splinter . `` aye , aye , starbuck , ' ti sweet to lean sometim , be the leaner who he will ; and would old ahab had lean often than he ha . '' `` the ferrul ha not stood , sir , '' said the carpent , now come up ; `` I put good work into that leg . '' `` but no bone broken , sir , I hope , '' said stubb with true concern . `` aye ! and all splinter to piec , stubb ! -- d ' ye see it . -- but even with a broken bone , old ahab is untouch ; and I account no live bone of mine one jot more me , than thi dead one that ' s lost . nor white whale , nor man , nor fiend , can so much as graze old ahab in hi own proper and inaccess be . can ani lead touch yonder floor , ani mast scrape yonder roof ? -- aloft there ! which way ? '' `` dead to leeward , sir . '' `` Up helm , then ; pile on the sail again , ship keeper ! down the rest of the spare boat and rig them -- Mr . starbuck away , and muster the boat ' s crew . '' `` let me first help thee toward the bulwark , sir . '' `` Oh , oh , oh ! how thi splinter gore me now ! accurs fate ! that the unconquer captain in the soul should have such a craven mate ! '' `` sir ? '' `` My bodi , man , not thee . give me someth for a cane -- there , that shiver lanc will do . muster the men . sure I have not seen him yet . By heaven it can not be ! -- miss ? -- quick ! call them all . '' the old man ' s hint thought wa true . upon muster the compani , the parse wa not there . `` the parse ! '' cri stubb -- '' he must have been caught in -- '' `` the black vomit wrench thee ! -- run all of ye abov , alow , cabin , forecastl -- find him -- not gone -- not gone ! '' but quickli they return to him with the tide that the parse wa nowher to be found . `` aye , sir , '' said stubb -- '' caught among the tangl of your line -- I thought I saw him drag under . '' `` MY line ! MY line ? gone ? -- gone ? what mean that littl word ? -- what death - knell ring in it , that old ahab shake as if he were the belfri . the harpoon , too ! -- toss over the litter there , -- d ' ye see it ? -- the forg iron , men , the white whale ' s -- no , no , no , -- blister fool ! thi hand did dart it ! -- ' ti in the fish ! -- aloft there ! keep him nail -- quick ! -- all hand to the rig of the boat -- collect the oar -- harpoon ! the iron , the iron ! -- hoist the royal higher -- a pull on all the sheet ! -- helm there ! steadi , steadi for your life ! I ' ll ten time girdl the unmeasur globe ; yea and dive straight through it , but I ' ll slay him yet ! `` great god ! but for one singl instant show thyself , '' cri starbuck ; `` never , never wilt thou captur him , old man -- In jesu ' name no more of thi , that ' s wors than devil ' s mad . two day chase ; twice stove to splinter ; thi veri leg onc more snatch from under thee ; thi evil shadow gone -- all good angel mob thee with warn : -- what more wouldst thou have ? -- shall we keep chase thi murder fish till he swamp the last man ? shall we be drag by him to the bottom of the sea ? shall we be tow by him to the infern world ? Oh , oh , -- impieti and blasphemi to hunt him more ! '' `` starbuck , of late I ' ve felt strang move to thee ; ever sinc that hour we both saw -- thou know ' st what , in one anoth ' s eye . but in thi matter of the whale , be the front of thi face to me as the palm of thi hand -- a lipless , unfeatur blank . ahab is for ever ahab , man . thi whole act ' s immut decre . ' twa rehears by thee and me a billion year befor thi ocean roll . fool ! I am the fate ' lieuten ; I act under order . look thou , underl ! that thou obeyest mine . -- stand round me , men . Ye see an old man cut down to the stump ; lean on a shiver lanc ; prop up on a lone foot . ' ti ahab -- hi bodi ' s part ; but ahab ' s soul ' s a centiped , that move upon a hundr leg . I feel strain , half strand , as rope that tow dismast frigat in a gale ; and I may look so . but ere I break , yell hear me crack ; and till ye hear that , know that ahab ' s hawser tow hi purpos yet . believ ye , men , in the thing call omen ? then laugh aloud , and cri encor ! for ere they drown , drown thing will twice rise to the surfac ; then rise again , to sink for evermor . So with mobi dick -- two day he ' s float -- tomorrow will be the third . aye , men , he ' ll rise onc more , -- but onli to spout hi last ! D ' ye feel brave men , brave ? '' `` As fearless fire , '' cri stubb . `` and as mechan , '' mutter ahab . then as the men went forward , he mutter on : `` the thing call omen ! and yesterday I talk the same to starbuck there , concern my broken boat . Oh ! how valiantli I seek to drive out of other ' heart what ' s clinch so fast in mine ! -- the parse -- the parse ! -- gone , gone ? and he wa to go befor : -- but still wa to be seen again ere I could perish -- how ' s that ? -- there ' s a riddl now might baffl all the lawyer back by the ghost of the whole line of judg : -- like a hawk ' s beak it peck my brain . I ' LL , I ' LL solv it , though ! '' when dusk descend , the whale wa still in sight to leeward . So onc more the sail wa shorten , and everyth pass nearli as on the previou night ; onli , the sound of hammer , and the hum of the grindston wa heard till nearli daylight , as the men toil by lantern in the complet and care rig of the spare boat and sharpen their fresh weapon for the morrow . meantim , of the broken keel of ahab ' s wreck craft the carpent made him anoth leg ; while still as on the night befor , slouch ahab stood fix within hi scuttl ; hi hid , heliotrop glanc anticipatingli gone backward on it dial ; sat due eastward for the earliest sun . chapter 135 the chase . -- third day . the morn of the third day dawn fair and fresh , and onc more the solitari night - man at the fore - mast - head wa reliev by crowd of the daylight look - out , who dot everi mast and almost everi spar . `` D ' ye see him ? '' cri ahab ; but the whale wa not yet in sight . `` In hi infal wake , though ; but follow that wake , that ' s all . helm there ; steadi , as thou goest , and hast been go . what a love day again ! were it a new - made world , and made for a summer - hous to the angel , and thi morn the first of it throw open to them , a fairer day could not dawn upon that world . here ' s food for thought , had ahab time to think ; but ahab never think ; he onli feel , feel , feel ; that ' S tingl enough for mortal man ! to think ' s audac . god onli ha that right and privileg . think is , or ought to be , a cool and a calm ; and our poor heart throb , and our poor brain beat too much for that . and yet , I ' ve sometim thought my brain wa veri calm -- frozen calm , thi old skull crack so , like a glass in which the content turn to ice , and shiver it . and still thi hair is grow now ; thi moment grow , and heat must breed it ; but no , it ' s like that sort of common grass that will grow anywher , between the earthi cleft of greenland ice or in vesuviu lava . how the wild wind blow it ; they whip it about me as the torn shred of split sail lash the toss ship they cling to . A vile wind that ha no doubt blown ere thi through prison corridor and cell , and ward of hospit , and ventil them , and now come blow hither as innoc as fleec . out upon it ! -- it ' s taint . were I the wind , I ' d blow no more on such a wick , miser world . I ' d crawl somewher to a cave , and slink there . and yet , ' ti a nobl and heroic thing , the wind ! who ever conquer it ? In everi fight it ha the last and bitterest blow . run tilt at it , and you but run through it . Ha ! a coward wind that strike stark nake men , but will not stand to receiv a singl blow . even ahab is a braver thing -- a nobler thing than that . would now the wind but had a bodi ; but all the thing that most exasper and outrag mortal man , all these thing are bodiless , but onli bodiless as object , not as agent . there ' s a most special , a most cun , oh , a most malici differ ! and yet , I say again , and swear it now , that there ' s someth all gloriou and graciou in the wind . these warm trade wind , at least , that in the clear heaven blow straight on , in strong and steadfast , vigor mild ; and veer not from their mark , howev the baser current of the sea may turn and tack , and mightiest mississippi of the land swift and swerv about , uncertain where to go at last . and by the etern pole ! these same trade that so directli blow my good ship on ; these trade , or someth like them -- someth so unchang , and full as strong , blow my keel soul along ! To it ! aloft there ! what d ' ye see ? '' `` noth , sir . '' `` noth ! and noon at hand ! the doubloon goe a - beg ! see the sun ! aye , aye , it must be so . I ' ve oversail him . how , got the start ? aye , he ' s chase ME now ; not I , him -- that ' s bad ; I might have known it , too . fool ! the line -- the harpoon he ' s tow . aye , aye , I have run him by last night . about ! about ! come down , all of ye , but the regular look out ! man the brace ! '' steer as she had done , the wind had been somewhat on the pequod ' s quarter , so that now be point in the revers direct , the brace ship sail hard upon the breez as she rechurn the cream in her own white wake . `` against the wind he now steer for the open jaw , '' murmur starbuck to himself , as he coil the new - haul main - brace upon the rail . `` god keep us , but alreadi my bone feel damp within me , and from the insid wet my flesh . I misdoubt me that I disobey my god in obey him ! '' `` stand by to sway me up ! '' cri ahab , advanc to the hempen basket . `` We should meet him soon . '' `` aye , aye , sir , '' and straightway starbuck did ahab ' s bid , and onc more ahab swung on high . A whole hour now pass ; gold - beaten out to age . time itself now held long breath with keen suspens . but at last , some three point off the weather bow , ahab descri the spout again , and instantli from the three mast - head three shriek went up as if the tongu of fire had voic it . `` forehead to forehead I meet thee , thi third time , mobi dick ! On deck there ! -- brace sharper up ; crowd her into the wind ' s eye . He ' s too far off to lower yet , Mr . starbuck . the sail shake ! stand over that helmsman with a top - maul ! So , so ; he travel fast , and I must down . but let me have one more good round look aloft here at the sea ; there ' s time for that . An old , old sight , and yet somehow so young ; aye , and not chang a wink sinc I first saw it , a boy , from the sand - hill of nantucket ! the same ! -- the same ! -- the same to noah as to me . there ' s a soft shower to leeward . such love leeward ! they must lead somewher -- to someth els than common land , more palmi than the palm . leeward ! the white whale goe that way ; look to windward , then ; the better if the bitter quarter . but good bye , good bye , old mast - head ! what ' s thi ? -- green ? aye , tini moss in these warp crack . No such green weather stain on ahab ' s head ! there ' s the differ now between man ' s old age and matter ' s . but aye , old mast , we both grow old togeth ; sound in our hull , though , are we not , my ship ? aye , minu a leg , that ' s all . By heaven thi dead wood ha the better of my live flesh everi way . I can ' t compar with it ; and I ' ve known some ship made of dead tree outlast the live of men made of the most vital stuff of vital father . what ' s that he said ? he should still go befor me , my pilot ; and yet to be seen again ? but where ? will I have eye at the bottom of the sea , suppos I descend those endless stair ? and all night I ' ve been sail from him , wherev he did sink to . aye , aye , like mani more thou told ' st dire truth as touch thyself , O parse ; but , ahab , there thi shot fell short . good - bye , mast - head -- keep a good eye upon the whale , the while I ' m gone . We ' ll talk to - morrow , nay , to - night , when the white whale lie down there , tie by head and tail . '' He gave the word ; and still gaze round him , wa steadili lower through the cloven blue air to the deck . In due time the boat were lower ; but as stand in hi shallop ' s stern , ahab just hover upon the point of the descent , he wave to the mate , -- who held one of the tackl - rope on deck -- and bade him paus . `` starbuck ! '' `` sir ? '' `` for the third time my soul ' s ship start upon thi voyag , starbuck . '' `` aye , sir , thou wilt have it so . '' `` some ship sail from their port , and ever afterward are miss , starbuck ! '' `` truth , sir : saddest truth . '' `` some men die at ebb tide ; some at low water ; some at the full of the flood ; -- and I feel now like a billow that ' s all one crest comb , starbuck . I am old ; -- shake hand with me , man . '' their hand met ; their eye fasten ; starbuck ' s tear the glue . `` Oh , my captain , my captain ! -- nobl heart -- go not -- go not ! -- see , it ' s a brave man that weep ; how great the agoni of the persuas then ! '' `` lower away ! '' -- cri ahab , toss the mate ' s arm from him . `` stand by the crew ! '' In an instant the boat wa pull round close under the stern . `` the shark ! the shark ! '' cri a voic from the low cabin - window there ; `` O master , my master , come back ! '' but ahab heard noth ; for hi own voic wa high - lift then ; and the boat leap on . yet the voic spake true ; for scarc had he push from the ship , when number of shark , seemingli rise from out the dark water beneath the hull , malici snap at the blade of the oar , everi time they dip in the water ; and in thi way accompani the boat with their bite . It is a thing not uncommonli happen to the whale - boat in those swarm sea ; the shark at time appar follow them in the same prescient way that vultur hover over the banner of march regiment in the east . but these were the first shark that had been observ by the pequod sinc the white whale had been first descri ; and whether it wa that ahab ' s crew were all such tiger - yellow barbarian , and therefor their flesh more muski to the sens of the shark -- a matter sometim well known to affect them , -- howev it wa , they seem to follow that one boat without molest the other . `` heart of wrought steel ! '' murmur starbuck gaze over the side , and follow with hi eye the reced boat -- '' canst thou yet ring boldli to that sight ? -- lower thi keel among raven shark , and follow by them , open - mouth to the chase ; and thi the critic third day ? -- for when three day flow togeth in one continu intens pursuit ; be sure the first is the morn , the second the noon , and the third the even and the end of that thing -- be that end what it may . Oh ! my god ! what is thi that shoot through me , and leav me so deadli calm , yet expect , -- fix at the top of a shudder ! futur thing swim befor me , as in empti outlin and skeleton ; all the past is somehow grown dim . mari , girl ! thou fadest in pale glori behind me ; boy ! I seem to see but thi eye grown wondrou blue . strangest problem of life seem clear ; but cloud sweep between -- Is my journey ' s end come ? My leg feel faint ; like hi who ha foot it all day . feel thi heart , -- beat it yet ? stir thyself , starbuck ! -- stave it off -- move , move ! speak aloud ! -- mast - head there ! see ye my boy ' s hand on the hill ? -- craze ; -- aloft there ! -- keep thi keenest eye upon the boat : -- mark well the whale ! -- Ho ! again ! -- drive off that hawk ! see ! he peck -- he tear the vane `` -- point to the red flag fli at the main - truck -- '' Ha ! he soar away with it ! -- where ' s the old man now ? see ' st thou that sight , oh ahab ! -- shudder , shudder ! '' the boat had not gone veri far , when by a signal from the mast - head -- a downward point arm , ahab knew that the whale had sound ; but intend to be near him at the next rise , he held on hi way a littl sideway from the vessel ; the becharm crew maintain the profoundest silenc , as the head - beat wave hammer and hammer against the oppos bow . `` drive , drive in your nail , oh ye wave ! to their uttermost head drive them in ! ye but strike a thing without a lid ; and no coffin and no hears can be mine : -- and hemp onli can kill me ! Ha ! ha ! '' suddenli the water around them slowli swell in broad circl ; then quickli upheav , as if sideway slide from a submerg berg of ice , swiftli rise to the surfac . A low rumbl sound wa heard ; a subterran hum ; and then all held their breath ; as bedraggl with trail rope , and harpoon , and lanc , a vast form shot lengthwis , but obliqu from the sea . shroud in a thin droop veil of mist , it hover for a moment in the rainbow air ; and then fell swamp back into the deep . crush thirti feet upward , the water flash for an instant like heap of fountain , then brokenli sank in a shower of flake , leav the circl surfac cream like new milk round the marbl trunk of the whale . `` give way ! '' cri ahab to the oarsmen , and the boat dart forward to the attack ; but madden by yesterday ' s fresh iron that corrod in him , mobi dick seem combinedli possess by all the angel that fell from heaven . the wide tier of weld tendon overspread hi broad white forehead , beneath the transpar skin , look knit togeth ; as head on , he came churn hi tail among the boat ; and onc more flail them apart ; spill out the iron and lanc from the two mate ' boat , and dash in one side of the upper part of their bow , but leav ahab ' s almost without a scar . while daggoo and queequeg were stop the strain plank ; and as the whale swim out from them , turn , and show one entir flank as he shot by them again ; at that moment a quick cri went up . lash round and round to the fish ' s back ; pinion in the turn upon turn in which , dure the past night , the whale had reel the involut of the line around him , the half torn bodi of the parse wa seen ; hi sabl raiment fray to shred ; hi distend eye turn full upon old ahab . the harpoon drop from hi hand . `` befool , befool ! '' -- draw in a long lean breath -- '' aye , parse ! I see thee again . -- aye , and thou goest befor ; and thi , thi then is the hears that thou didst promis . but I hold thee to the last letter of thi word . where is the second hears ? away , mate , to the ship ! those boat are useless now ; repair them if ye can in time , and return to me ; if not , ahab is enough to die -- down , men ! the first thing that but offer to jump from thi boat I stand in , that thing I harpoon . Ye are not other men , but my arm and my leg ; and so obey me . -- where ' s the whale ? gone down again ? '' but he look too nigh the boat ; for as if bent upon escap with the corps he bore , and as if the particular place of the last encount had been but a stage in hi leeward voyag , mobi dick wa now again steadili swim forward ; and had almost pass the ship , -- which thu far had been sail in the contrari direct to him , though for the present her headway had been stop . He seem swim with hi utmost veloc , and now onli intent upon pursu hi own straight path in the sea . `` Oh ! ahab , '' cri starbuck , `` not too late is it , even now , the third day , to desist . see ! mobi dick seek thee not . It is thou , thou , that madli seekest him ! '' set sail to the rise wind , the lone boat wa swiftli impel to leeward , by both oar and canva . and at last when ahab wa slide by the vessel , so near as plainli to distinguish starbuck ' s face as he lean over the rail , he hail him to turn the vessel about , and follow him , not too swiftli , at a judici interv . glanc upward , he saw tashtego , queequeg , and daggoo , eagerli mount to the three mast - head ; while the oarsmen were rock in the two stave boat which had but just been hoist to the side , and were busili at work in repair them . one after the other , through the port - hole , as he sped , he also caught fli glimps of stubb and flask , busi themselv on deck among bundl of new iron and lanc . As he saw all thi ; as he heard the hammer in the broken boat ; far other hammer seem drive a nail into hi heart . but he ralli . and now mark that the vane or flag wa gone from the main - mast - head , he shout to tashtego , who had just gain that perch , to descend again for anoth flag , and a hammer and nail , and so nail it to the mast . whether fag by the three day ' run chase , and the resist to hi swim in the knot hamper he bore ; or whether it wa some latent deceit and malic in him : whichev wa true , the white whale ' s way now began to abat , as it seem , from the boat so rapidli near him onc more ; though inde the whale ' s last start had not been so long a one as befor . and still as ahab glide over the wave the unpiti shark accompani him ; and so pertinaci stuck to the boat ; and so continu bit at the pli oar , that the blade becam jag and crunch , and left small splinter in the sea , at almost everi dip . `` heed them not ! those teeth but give new rowlock to your oar . pull on ! ' ti the better rest , the shark ' s jaw than the yield water . '' `` but at everi bite , sir , the thin blade grow smaller and smaller ! '' `` they will last long enough ! pull on ! -- but who can tell `` -- he mutter -- '' whether these shark swim to feast on the whale or on ahab ? -- but pull on ! aye , all aliv , now -- we near him . the helm ! take the helm ! let me pass , '' -- and so say two of the oarsmen help him forward to the bow of the still fli boat . At length as the craft wa cast to one side , and ran rang along with the white whale ' s flank , he seem strang oblivi of it advanc -- as the whale sometim will -- and ahab wa fairli within the smoki mountain mist , which , thrown off from the whale ' s spout , curl round hi great , monadnock hump ; he wa even thu close to him ; when , with bodi arch back , and both arm lengthwis high - lift to the pois , he dart hi fierc iron , and hi far fiercer curs into the hate whale . As both steel and curs sank to the socket , as if suck into a morass , mobi dick sideway writh ; spasmod roll hi nigh flank against the bow , and , without stave a hole in it , so suddenli cant the boat over , that had it not been for the elev part of the gunwal to which he then clung , ahab would onc more have been toss into the sea . As it wa , three of the oarsmen -- who foreknew not the precis instant of the dart , and were therefor unprepar for it effect -- these were flung out ; but so fell , that , in an instant two of them clutch the gunwal again , and rise to it level on a comb wave , hurl themselv bodili inboard again ; the third man helplessli drop astern , but still afloat and swim . almost simultan , with a mighti volit of ungradu , instantan swift , the white whale dart through the welter sea . but when ahab cri out to the steersman to take new turn with the line , and hold it so ; and command the crew to turn round on their seat , and tow the boat up to the mark ; the moment the treacher line felt that doubl strain and tug , it snap in the empti air ! `` what break in me ? some sinew crack ! -- ' ti whole again ; oar ! oar ! burst in upon him ! '' hear the tremend rush of the sea - crash boat , the whale wheel round to present hi blank forehead at bay ; but in that evolut , catch sight of the near black hull of the ship ; seemingli see in it the sourc of all hi persecut ; bethink it -- it may be -- a larger and nobler foe ; of a sudden , he bore down upon it advanc prow , smite hi jaw amid fieri shower of foam . ahab stagger ; hi hand smote hi forehead . `` I grow blind ; hand ! stretch out befor me that I may yet grope my way . Is ' t night ? '' `` the whale ! the ship ! '' cri the cring oarsmen . `` oar ! oar ! slope downward to thi depth , O sea , that ere it be for ever too late , ahab may slide thi last , last time upon hi mark ! I see : the ship ! the ship ! dash on , my men ! will ye not save my ship ? '' but as the oarsmen violent forc their boat through the sledg - hammer sea , the befor whale - smitten bow - end of two plank burst through , and in an instant almost , the temporarili disabl boat lay nearli level with the wave ; it half - wade , splash crew , tri hard to stop the gap and bale out the pour water . meantim , for that one behold instant , tashtego ' s mast - head hammer remain suspend in hi hand ; and the red flag , half - wrap him as with a plaid , then stream itself straight out from him , as hi own forward - flow heart ; while starbuck and stubb , stand upon the bowsprit beneath , caught sight of the down - come monster just as soon as he . `` the whale , the whale ! Up helm , up helm ! Oh , all ye sweet power of air , now hug me close ! let not starbuck die , if die he must , in a woman ' s faint fit . Up helm , I say -- ye fool , the jaw ! the jaw ! Is thi the end of all my burst prayer ? all my life - long fidel ? Oh , ahab , ahab , lo , thi work . steadi ! helmsman , steadi . nay , nay ! Up helm again ! He turn to meet us ! Oh , hi unappeas brow drive on toward one , whose duti tell him he can not depart . My god , stand by me now ! '' `` stand not by me , but stand under me , whoever you are that will now help stubb ; for stubb , too , stick here . I grin at thee , thou grin whale ! who ever help stubb , or kept stubb awak , but stubb ' s own unwink eye ? and now poor stubb goe to bed upon a mattrass that is all too soft ; would it were stuf with brushwood ! I grin at thee , thou grin whale ! look ye , sun , moon , and star ! I call ye assassin of as good a fellow as ever spout up hi ghost . for all that , I would yet ring glass with ye , would ye but hand the cup ! Oh , oh ! oh , oh ! thou grin whale , but there ' ll be plenti of gulp soon ! whi fli ye not , O ahab ! for me , off shoe and jacket to it ; let stubb die in hi drawer ! A most mouldi and over salt death , though ; -- cherri ! cherri ! cherri ! Oh , flask , for one red cherri ere we die ! '' `` cherri ? I onli wish that we were where they grow . Oh , stubb , I hope my poor mother ' s drawn my part - pay ere thi ; if not , few copper will now come to her , for the voyag is up . '' from the ship ' s bow , nearli all the seamen now hung inact ; hammer , bit of plank , lanc , and harpoon , mechan retain in their hand , just as they had dart from their variou employ ; all their enchant eye intent upon the whale , which from side to side strang vibrat hi predestin head , sent a broad band of overspread semicircular foam befor him as he rush . retribut , swift vengeanc , etern malic were in hi whole aspect , and spite of all that mortal man could do , the solid white buttress of hi forehead smote the ship ' s starboard bow , till men and timber reel . some fell flat upon their face . like dislodg truck , the head of the harpoon aloft shook on their bull - like neck . through the breach , they heard the water pour , as mountain torrent down a flume . `` the ship ! the hears ! -- the second hears ! '' cri ahab from the boat ; `` it wood could onli be american ! '' dive beneath the settl ship , the whale ran quiver along it keel ; but turn under water , swiftli shot to the surfac again , far off the other bow , but within a few yard of ahab ' s boat , where , for a time , he lay quiescent . `` I turn my bodi from the sun . what ho , tashtego ! let me hear thi hammer . Oh ! ye three unsurrend spire of mine ; thou uncrack keel ; and onli god - bulli hull ; thou firm deck , and haughti helm , and pole - point prow , -- death - gloriou ship ! must ye then perish , and without me ? Am I cut off from the last fond pride of meanest shipwreck captain ? Oh , lone death on lone life ! Oh , now I feel my topmost great lie in my topmost grief . Ho , ho ! from all your furthest bound , pour ye now in , ye bold billow of my whole foregon life , and top thi one pile comber of my death ! toward thee I roll , thou all - destroy but unconqu whale ; to the last I grappl with thee ; from hell ' s heart I stab at thee ; for hate ' s sake I spit my last breath at thee . sink all coffin and all hears to one common pool ! and sinc neither can be mine , let me then tow to piec , while still chase thee , though tie to thee , thou damn whale ! thu , I give up the spear ! '' the harpoon wa dart ; the stricken whale flew forward ; with ignit veloc the line ran through the groov ; -- ran foul . ahab stoop to clear it ; he did clear it ; but the fli turn caught him round the neck , and voicelessli as turkish mute bowstr their victim , he wa shot out of the boat , ere the crew knew he wa gone . next instant , the heavi eye - splice in the rope ' s final end flew out of the stark - empti tub , knock down an oarsman , and smite the sea , disappear in it depth . for an instant , the tranc boat ' s crew stood still ; then turn . `` the ship ? great god , where is the ship ? '' soon they through dim , bewild medium saw her sidelong fade phantom , as in the gaseou fata morgana ; onli the uppermost mast out of water ; while fix by infatu , or fidel , or fate , to their onc lofti perch , the pagan harpoon still maintain their sink lookout on the sea . and now , concentr circl seiz the lone boat itself , and all it crew , and each float oar , and everi lanc - pole , and spin , anim and inanim , all round and round in one vortex , carri the smallest chip of the pequod out of sight . but as the last whelm intermixingli pour themselv over the sunken head of the indian at the mainmast , leav a few inch of the erect spar yet visibl , togeth with long stream yard of the flag , which calmli undul , with iron coincid , over the destroy billow they almost touch ; -- at that instant , a red arm and a hammer hover backwardli uplift in the open air , in the act of nail the flag faster and yet faster to the subsid spar . A sky - hawk that tauntingli had follow the main - truck downward from it natur home among the star , peck at the flag , and incommod tashtego there ; thi bird now chanc to intercept it broad flutter wing between the hammer and the wood ; and simultan feel that etheri thrill , the submerg savag beneath , in hi death - gasp , kept hi hammer frozen there ; and so the bird of heaven , with archangel shriek , and hi imperi beak thrust upward , and hi whole captiv form fold in the flag of ahab , went down with hi ship , which , like satan , would not sink to hell till she had drag a live part of heaven along with her , and helmet herself with it . now small fowl flew scream over the yet yawn gulf ; a sullen white surf beat against it steep side ; then all collaps , and the great shroud of the sea roll on as it roll five thousand year ago . epilogu `` and I onli AM escap alon TO tell thee `` job . the drama ' s done . whi then here doe ani one step forth ? -- becaus one did surviv the wreck . It so chanc , that after the parse ' s disappear , I wa he whom the fate ordain to take the place of ahab ' s bowsman , when that bowsman assum the vacant post ; the same , who , when on the last day the three men were toss from out of the rock boat , wa drop astern . So , float on the margin of the ensu scene , and in full sight of it , when the halfspent suction of the sunk ship reach me , I wa then , but slowli , drawn toward the close vortex . when I reach it , it had subsid to a creami pool . round and round , then , and ever contract toward the button - like black bubbl at the axi of that slowli wheel circl , like anoth ixion I did revolv . till , gain that vital centr , the black bubbl upward burst ; and now , liber by reason of it cun spring , and , owe to it great buoyanc , rise with great forc , the coffin life - buoy shot lengthwis from the sea , fell over , and float by my side . buoy up by that coffin , for almost one whole day and night , I float on a soft and dirgelik main . the unharm shark , they glide by as if with padlock on their mouth ; the savag sea - hawk sail with sheath beak . On the second day , a sail drew near , nearer , and pick me up at last . It wa the deviou - cruis rachel , that in her retrac search after her miss children , onli found anoth orphan . [ mobi dick by herman melvil 1851 ] etymolog . ( suppli by a late consumpt usher to a grammar school ) the pale usher -- threadbar in coat , heart , bodi , and brain ; I see him now . He wa ever dust hi old lexicon and grammar , with a queer handkerchief , mockingli embellish with all the gay flag of all the known nation of the world . He love to dust hi old grammar ; it somehow mildli remind him of hi mortal . `` while you take in hand to school other , and to teach them by what name a whale - fish is to be call in our tongu leav out , through ignor , the letter H , which almost alon maketh the signif of the word , you deliv that which is not true . '' -- hackluyt `` whale . ... Sw . and dan . hval . thi anim is name from round or roll ; for in dan . hvalt is arch or vault . '' -- webster ' S dictionari `` whale . ... It is more immedi from the dut . and ger . wallen ; A . S . walw - ian , to roll , to wallow . '' -- richardson ' S dictionari keto , greek . cetu , latin . whoel , anglo - saxon . hvalt , danish . wal , dutch . hwal , swedish . whale , iceland . whale , english . balein , french . ballena , spanish . peke - nuee - nuee , fege . peke - nuee - nuee , erromangoan . extract ( suppli by a sub - sub - librarian ) . It will be seen that thi mere painstak burrow and grub - worm of a poor devil of a sub - sub appear to have gone through the long vatican and street - stall of the earth , pick up whatev random allus to whale he could anyway find in ani book whatsoev , sacr or profan . therefor you must not , in everi case at least , take the higgledi - piggledi whale statement , howev authent , in these extract , for verit gospel cetolog . far from it . As touch the ancient author gener , as well as the poet here appear , these extract are sole valuabl or entertain , as afford a glanc bird ' s eye view of what ha been promiscu said , thought , fanci , and sung of leviathan , by mani nation and gener , includ our own . So fare thee well , poor devil of a sub - sub , whose comment I am . thou belongest to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of thi world will ever warm ; and for whom even pale sherri would be too rosi - strong ; but with whom one sometim love to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivi upon tear ; and say to them bluntli , with full eye and empti glass , and in not altogeth unpleas sad -- give it up , sub - sub ! for by how much the more pain ye take to pleas the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! would that I could clear out hampton court and the tuileri for ye ! but gulp down your tear and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your heart ; for your friend who have gone befor are clear out the seven - stori heaven , and make refuge of long - pamper gabriel , michael , and raphael , against your come . here ye strike but splinter heart togeth -- there , ye shall strike unsplinter glass ! extract . `` and god creat great whale . '' -- genesi . `` leviathan maketh a path to shine after him ; one would think the deep to be hoari . '' -- job . `` now the lord had prepar a great fish to swallow up jonah . '' -- jonah . `` there go the ship ; there is that leviathan whom thou hast made to play therein . '' -- psalm . `` In that day , the lord with hi sore , and great , and strong sword , shall punish leviathan the pierc serpent , even leviathan that crook serpent ; and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea . '' -- isaiah `` and what thing soever besid cometh within the chao of thi monster ' s mouth , be it beast , boat , or stone , down it goe all incontin that foul great swallow of hi , and perisheth in the bottomless gulf of hi paunch . '' -- holland ' S plutarch ' S moral . `` the indian sea breedeth the most and the biggest fish that are : among which the whale and whirlpool call balaen , take up as much in length as four acr or arpen of land . '' -- holland ' S plini . `` scarc had we proceed two day on the sea , when about sunris a great mani whale and other monster of the sea , appear . among the former , one wa of a most monstrou size . ... thi came toward us , open - mouth , rais the wave on all side , and beat the sea befor him into a foam . '' -- took ' S lucian . `` the true histori . '' `` He visit thi countri also with a view of catch hors - whale , which had bone of veri great valu for their teeth , of which he brought some to the king . ... the best whale were catch in hi own countri , of which some were forti - eight , some fifti yard long . He said that he wa one of six who had kill sixti in two day . '' -- other OR octher ' S verbal narr taken down from hi mouth BY king alfr , A . D . 890 . `` and wherea all the other thing , whether beast or vessel , that enter into the dread gulf of thi monster ' s ( whale ' s ) mouth , are immedi lost and swallow up , the sea - gudgeon retir into it in great secur , and there sleep . '' -- montaign . -- apolog for raimond sebond . `` let us fli , let us fli ! old nick take me if is not leviathan describ by the nobl prophet mose in the life of patient job . '' -- rabelai . `` thi whale ' s liver wa two cartload . '' -- stow ' S annal . `` the great leviathan that maketh the sea to seeth like boil pan . '' -- lord bacon ' S version OF the psalm . `` touch that monstrou bulk of the whale or ork we have receiv noth certain . they grow exceed fat , insomuch that an incred quantiti of oil will be extract out of one whale . '' -- ibid . `` histori OF life and death . '' `` the sovereignest thing on earth is parmacetti for an inward bruis . '' -- king henri . `` veri like a whale . '' -- hamlet . `` which to secur , no skill of leach ' s art mote him avail , but to return again To hi wound ' s worker , that with lowli dart , dint hi breast , had bred hi restless pain , like as the wound whale to shore fli thro ' the main . '' -- the faeri queen . `` immens as whale , the motion of whose vast bodi can in a peac calm troubl the ocean til it boil . '' -- sir william daven . prefac TO gondibert . `` what spermacetti is , men might justli doubt , sinc the learn hosmannu in hi work of thirti year , saith plainli , nescio quid sit . '' -- sir T . brown . OF sperma ceti and the sperma ceti whale . vide hi V . E . `` like spencer ' s talu with hi modern flail He threaten ruin with hi ponder tail . ... their fix jav ' lin in hi side he wear , and on hi back a grove of pike appear . '' -- waller ' S battl OF the summer island . `` By art is creat that great leviathan , call a commonwealth or state -- ( in latin , civita ) which is but an artifici man . '' -- open sentenc OF hobb ' S leviathan . `` silli mansoul swallow it without chew , as if it had been a sprat in the mouth of a whale . '' -- pilgrim ' S progress . `` that sea beast leviathan , which god of all hi work creat hugest that swim the ocean stream . '' -- paradis lost . -- - '' there leviathan , hugest of live creatur , in the deep stretch like a promontori sleep or swim , and seem a move land ; and at hi gill draw in , and at hi breath spout out a sea . '' -- ibid . `` the mighti whale which swim in a sea of water , and have a sea of oil swim in them . '' -- fulller ' S profan and holi state . `` So close behind some promontori lie the huge leviathan to attend their prey , and give no chanc , but swallow in the fri , which through their gape jaw mistak the way . '' -- dryden ' S annu mirabili . `` while the whale is float at the stern of the ship , they cut off hi head , and tow it with a boat as near the shore as it will come ; but it will be aground in twelv or thirteen feet water . '' -- thoma edg ' S ten voyag TO spitzbergen , IN purcha . `` In their way they saw mani whale sport in the ocean , and in wanton fuzz up the water through their pipe and vent , which natur ha place on their shoulder . '' -- sir T . herbert ' S voyag into asia and africa . harri coll . `` here they saw such huge troop of whale , that they were forc to proceed with a great deal of caution for fear they should run their ship upon them . '' -- schouten ' S sixth circumnavig . `` We set sail from the elb , wind N . E . in the ship call the jona - in - the - whale . ... some say the whale can ' t open hi mouth , but that is a fabl . ... they frequent climb up the mast to see whether they can see a whale , for the first discover ha a ducat for hi pain . ... I wa told of a whale taken near shetland , that had abov a barrel of her in hi belli . ... one of our harpoon told me that he caught onc a whale in spitzbergen that wa white all over . '' -- A voyag TO greenland , A . D . 1671 harri coll . `` sever whale have come in upon thi coast ( fife ) anno 1652 , one eighti feet in length of the whale - bone kind came in , which ( as I wa inform ) , besid a vast quantiti of oil , did afford 500 weight of baleen . the jaw of it stand for a gate in the garden of pitferren . '' -- sibbald ' S fife and kinross . `` myself have agre to tri whether I can master and kill thi sperma - ceti whale , for I could never hear of ani of that sort that wa kill by ani man , such is hi fierc and swift . '' -- richard strafford ' S letter from the bermuda . phil . tran . A . D . 1668 . `` whale in the sea god ' s voic obey . '' -- N . E . primer . `` We saw also abund of larg whale , there be more in those southern sea , as I may say , by a hundr to one ; than we have to the northward of us . '' -- captain cowley ' S voyag round the globe , A . D . 1729 . `` ... and the breath of the whale is frequendi attend with such an insupport smell , as to bring on a disord of the brain . '' -- ulloa ' S south america . `` To fifti chosen sylph of special note , We trust the import charg , the petticoat . oft have we known that seven - fold fenc to fail , tho ' stuf with hoop and arm with rib of whale . '' -- rape OF the lock . `` If we compar land anim in respect to magnitud , with those that take up their abod in the deep , we shall find they will appear contempt in the comparison . the whale is doubtless the largest anim in creation . '' -- goldsmith , nat . hist . `` If you should write a fabl for littl fish , you would make them speak like great wale . '' -- goldsmith TO johnson . `` In the afternoon we saw what wa suppos to be a rock , but it wa found to be a dead whale , which some asiat had kill , and were then tow ashor . they seem to endeavor to conceal themselv behind the whale , in order to avoid be seen by us . '' -- cook ' S voyag . `` the larger whale , they seldom ventur to attack . they stand in so great dread of some of them , that when out at sea they are afraid to mention even their name , and carri dung , lime - stone , junip - wood , and some other articl of the same natur in their boat , in order to terrifi and prevent their too near approach . '' -- uno von troil ' S letter ON bank ' S and soland ' S voyag TO iceland IN 1772 . `` the spermacetti whale found by the nantuckoi , is an activ , fierc anim , and requir vast address and bold in the fishermen . '' -- thoma jefferson ' S whale memori TO the french minist IN 1778 . `` and pray , sir , what in the world is equal to it ? '' -- edmund burk ' S refer IN parliament TO the nantucket whale - fisheri . `` spain -- a great whale strand on the shore of europ . '' -- edmund burk . ( somewher . ) `` A tenth branch of the king ' s ordinari revenu , said to be ground on the consider of hi guard and protect the sea from pirat and robber , is the right to royal fish , which are whale and sturgeon . and these , when either thrown ashor or caught near the coast , are the properti of the king . '' -- blackston . `` soon to the sport of death the crew repair : rodmond uner o ' er hi head suspend the barb steel , and everi turn attend . '' -- falcon ' S shipwreck . `` bright shone the roof , the dome , the spire , and rocket blew self driven , To hang their momentari fire around the vault of heaven . `` So fire with water to compar , the ocean serv on high , Up - spout by a whale in air , To express unwieldi joy . '' -- cowper , ON the queen ' S visit TO london . `` ten or fifteen gallon of blood are thrown out of the heart at a stroke , with immens veloc . '' -- john hunter ' S account OF the dissect OF A whale . ( A small size one . ) `` the aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water - work at london bridg , and the water roar in it passag through that pipe is inferior in impetu and veloc to the blood gush from the whale ' s heart . '' -- paley ' S theolog . `` the whale is a mammifer anim without hind feet . '' -- baron cuvier . `` In 40 degre south , we saw spermacetti whale , but did not take ani till the first of may , the sea be then cover with them . '' -- colnett ' S voyag for the purpos OF extend the spermaceti whale fisheri . `` In the free element beneath me swam , flounder and dive , in play , in chace , in battl , fish of everi colour , form , and kind ; which languag can not paint , and marin had never seen ; from dread leviathan To insect million peopl everi wave : gather ' d in shoal immens , like float island , led by mysteri instinct through that wast and trackless region , though on everi side assault by voraci enemi , whale , shark , and monster , arm ' d in front or jaw , with sword , saw , spiral horn , or hook fang . '' -- montgomeri ' S world befor the flood . `` Io ! paean ! Io ! sing . To the finni peopl ' s king . not a mightier whale than thi In the vast atlant is ; not a fatter fish than he , flounder round the polar sea . '' -- charl lamb ' S triumph OF the whale . `` In the year 1690 some person were on a high hill observ the whale spout and sport with each other , when one observ : there -- point to the sea -- is a green pastur where our children ' s grand - children will go for bread . '' -- obe maci ' S histori OF nantucket . `` I built a cottag for susan and myself and made a gateway in the form of a gothic arch , by set up a whale ' s jaw bone . '' -- hawthorn ' S twice told tale . `` she came to bespeak a monument for her first love , who had been kill by a whale in the pacif ocean , no less than forti year ago . '' -- ibid . `` No , sir , ' ti a right whale , '' answer tom ; `` I saw hi sprout ; he threw up a pair of as pretti rainbow as a christian would wish to look at . He ' s a raal oil - butt , that fellow ! '' -- cooper ' S pilot . `` the paper were brought in , and we saw in the berlin gazett that whale had been introduc on the stage there . '' -- eckermann ' S convers with goeth . `` My god ! Mr . chace , what is the matter ? '' I answer , `` we have been stove by a whale . '' -- '' narr OF the shipwreck OF the whale ship essex OF nantucket , which wa attack and final destroy BY A larg sperm whale IN the pacif ocean . '' BY owen chace OF nantucket , first mate OF said vessel . new york , 1821 . `` A marin sat in the shroud one night , the wind wa pipe free ; now bright , now dim , wa the moonlight pale , and the phospher gleam in the wake of the whale , As it flounder in the sea . '' -- elizabeth oak smith . `` the quantiti of line withdrawn from the boat engag in the captur of thi one whale , amount altogeth to 10 , 440 yard or nearli six english mile . ... `` sometim the whale shake it tremend tail in the air , which , crack like a whip , resound to the distanc of three or four mile . '' -- scoresbi . `` mad with the agoni he endur from these fresh attack , the infuri sperm whale roll over and over ; he rear hi enorm head , and with wide expand jaw snap at everyth around him ; he rush at the boat with hi head ; they are propel befor him with vast swift , and sometim utterli destroy . ... It is a matter of great astonish that the consider of the habit of so interest , and , in a commerci point of view , so import an anim ( as the sperm whale ) should have been so entir neglect , or should have excit so littl curios among the numer , and mani of them compet observ , that of late year , must have possess the most abund and the most conveni opportun of wit their habitud . '' -- thoma beal ' S histori OF the sperm whale , 1839 . `` the cachalot `` ( sperm whale ) `` is not onli better arm than the true whale `` ( greenland or right whale ) `` in possess a formid weapon at either extrem of it bodi , but also more frequent display a disposit to employ these weapon offens and in manner at onc so art , bold , and mischiev , as to lead to it be regard as the most danger to attack of all the known speci of the whale tribe . '' -- frederick debel bennett ' S whale voyag round the globe , 1840 . octob 13 . `` there she blow , '' wa sung out from the mast - head . `` where away ? '' demand the captain . `` three point off the lee bow , sir . '' `` rais up your wheel . steadi ! '' `` steadi , sir . '' `` mast - head ahoy ! Do you see that whale now ? '' `` Ay ay , sir ! A shoal of sperm whale ! there she blow ! there she breach ! '' `` sing out ! sing out everi time ! '' `` Ay Ay , sir ! there she blow ! there -- there -- thar she blow -- bow -- bo - o - os ! '' `` how far off ? '' `` two mile and a half . '' `` thunder and lightn ! so near ! call all hand . '' -- J . ross brown ' S etch OF A whale cruiz . 1846 . `` the whale - ship globe , on board of which vessel occur the horrid transact we are about to relat , belong to the island of nantucket . '' -- '' narr OF the globe , '' BY lay and hussey survivor . A . D . 1828 . be onc pursu by a whale which he had wound , he parri the assault for some time with a lanc ; but the furiou monster at length rush on the boat ; himself and comrad onli be preserv by leap into the water when they saw the onset wa inevit . '' -- missionari journal OF tyerman and bennett . `` nantucket itself , '' said Mr . webster , `` is a veri strike and peculiar portion of the nation interest . there is a popul of eight or nine thousand person live here in the sea , ad larg everi year to the nation wealth by the boldest and most persev industri . '' -- report OF daniel webster ' S speech IN the U . S . senat , ON the applic for the erect OF A breakwat AT nantucket . 1828 . `` the whale fell directli over him , and probabl kill him in a moment . '' -- '' the whale and hi captor , OR the whaleman ' S adventur and the whale ' S biographi , gather ON the homeward cruis OF the commodor prebl . '' BY rev . henri T . cheever . `` If you make the least damn bit of nois , '' repli samuel , `` I will send you to hell . '' -- life OF samuel comstock ( the mutin ) , BY hi brother , william comstock . anoth version OF the whale - ship globe narr . `` the voyag of the dutch and english to the northern ocean , in order , if possibl , to discov a passag through it to india , though they fail of their main object , laid - open the haunt of the whale . '' -- mcculloch ' S commerci dictionari . `` these thing are reciproc ; the ball rebound , onli to bound forward again ; for now in lay open the haunt of the whale , the whalemen seem to have indirectli hit upon new clew to that same mystic north - west passag . '' -- from `` someth `` unpublish . `` It is imposs to meet a whale - ship on the ocean without be struck by her near appear . the vessel under short sail , with look - out at the mast - head , eagerli scan the wide expans around them , ha a total differ air from those engag in regular voyag . '' -- current and whale . U . S . EX . EX . `` pedestrian in the vicin of london and elsewher may recollect have seen larg curv bone set upright in the earth , either to form arch over gateway , or entranc to alcov , and they may perhap have been told that these were the rib of whale . '' -- tale OF A whale voyag TO the arctic ocean . `` It wa not till the boat return from the pursuit of these whale , that the white saw their ship in bloodi possess of the savag enrol among the crew . '' -- newspap account OF the take and retak OF the whale - ship hobomack . `` It is gener well known that out of the crew of whale vessel ( american ) few ever return in the ship on board of which they depart . '' -- cruis IN A whale boat . `` suddenli a mighti mass emerg from the water , and shot up perpendicularli into the air . It wa the while . '' -- miriam coffin OR the whale fisherman . `` the whale is harpoon to be sure ; but bethink you , how you would manag a power unbroken colt , with the mere applianc of a rope tie to the root of hi tail . '' -- A chapter ON whale IN rib and truck . `` On one occas I saw two of these monster ( whale ) probabl male and femal , slowli swim , one after the other , within less than a stone ' s throw of the shore `` ( terra del fuego ) , `` over which the beech tree extend it branch . '' -- darwin ' S voyag OF A naturalist . `` ' stern all ! ' exclaim the mate , as upon turn hi head , he saw the distend jaw of a larg sperm whale close to the head of the boat , threaten it with instant destruct ; -- ' stern all , for your live ! ' '' -- wharton the whale killer . `` So be cheeri , my lad , let your heart never fail , while the bold harpoon is strike the whale ! '' -- nantucket song . `` Oh , the rare old whale , mid storm and gale In hi ocean home will be A giant in might , where might is right , and king of the boundless sea . '' -- whale song . chapter 1 loom . call me ishmael . some year ago -- never mind how long precis -- have littl or no money in my purs , and noth particular to interest me on shore , I thought I would sail about a littl and see the wateri part of the world . It is a way I have of drive off the spleen and regul the circul . whenev I find myself grow grim about the mouth ; whenev it is a damp , drizzli novemb in my soul ; whenev I find myself involuntarili paus befor coffin warehous , and bring up the rear of everi funer I meet ; and especi whenev my hypo get such an upper hand of me , that it requir a strong moral principl to prevent me from deliber step into the street , and method knock peopl ' s hat off -- then , I account it high time to get to sea as soon as I can . thi is my substitut for pistol and ball . with a philosoph flourish cato throw himself upon hi sword ; I quietli take to the ship . there is noth surpris in thi . If they but knew it , almost all men in their degre , some time or other , cherish veri nearli the same feel toward the ocean with me . there now is your insular citi of the manhatto , belt round by wharv as indian isl by coral reef -- commerc surround it with her surf . right and left , the street take you waterward . it extrem downtown is the batteri , where that nobl mole is wash by wave , and cool by breez , which a few hour previou were out of sight of land . look at the crowd of water - gazer there . circumambul the citi of a dreami sabbath afternoon . Go from corlear hook to coenti slip , and from thenc , by whitehal , northward . what do you see ? -- post like silent sentinel all around the town , stand thousand upon thousand of mortal men fix in ocean reveri . some lean against the spile ; some seat upon the pier - head ; some look over the bulwark of ship from china ; some high aloft in the rig , as if strive to get a still better seaward peep . but these are all landsmen ; of week day pent up in lath and plaster -- tie to counter , nail to bench , clinch to desk . how then is thi ? are the green field gone ? what do they here ? but look ! here come more crowd , pace straight for the water , and seemingli bound for a dive . strang ! noth will content them but the extremest limit of the land ; loiter under the shadi lee of yonder warehous will not suffic . No . they must get just as nigh the water as they possibl can without fall in . and there they stand -- mile of them -- leagu . inland all , they come from lane and alley , street and avenu -- north , east , south , and west . yet here they all unit . tell me , doe the magnet virtu of the needl of the compass of all those ship attract them thither ? onc more . say you are in the countri ; in some high land of lake . take almost ani path you pleas , and ten to one it carri you down in a dale , and leav you there by a pool in the stream . there is magic in it . let the most absent - mind of men be plung in hi deepest reveri -- stand that man on hi leg , set hi feet a - go , and he will infal lead you to water , if water there be in all that region . should you ever be athirst in the great american desert , tri thi experi , if your caravan happen to be suppli with a metaphys professor . ye , as everi one know , medit and water are wed for ever . but here is an artist . He desir to paint you the dreamiest , shadiest , quietest , most enchant bit of romant landscap in all the valley of the saco . what is the chief element he employ ? there stand hi tree , each with a hollow trunk , as if a hermit and a crucifix were within ; and here sleep hi meadow , and there sleep hi cattl ; and up from yonder cottag goe a sleepi smoke . deep into distant woodland wind a mazi way , reach to overlap spur of mountain bath in their hill - side blue . but though the pictur lie thu tranc , and though thi pine - tree shake down it sigh like leav upon thi shepherd ' s head , yet all were vain , unless the shepherd ' s eye were fix upon the magic stream befor him . Go visit the prairi in june , when for score on score of mile you wade knee - deep among tiger - lili -- what is the one charm want ? -- water -- there is not a drop of water there ! were niagara but a cataract of sand , would you travel your thousand mile to see it ? whi did the poor poet of tennesse , upon suddenli receiv two hand of silver , deliber whether to buy him a coat , which he sadli need , or invest hi money in a pedestrian trip to rockaway beach ? whi is almost everi robust healthi boy with a robust healthi soul in him , at some time or other crazi to go to sea ? whi upon your first voyag as a passeng , did you yourself feel such a mystic vibrat , when first told that you and your ship were now out of sight of land ? whi did the old persian hold the sea holi ? whi did the greek give it a separ deiti , and own brother of jove ? sure all thi is not without mean . and still deeper the mean of that stori of narcissu , who becaus he could not grasp the torment , mild imag he saw in the fountain , plung into it and wa drown . but that same imag , we ourselv see in all river and ocean . It is the imag of the ungrasp phantom of life ; and thi is the key to it all . now , when I say that I am in the habit of go to sea whenev I begin to grow hazi about the eye , and begin to be over consciou of my lung , I do not mean to have it infer that I ever go to sea as a passeng . for to go as a passeng you must need have a purs , and a purs is but a rag unless you have someth in it . besid , passeng get sea - sick -- grow quarrelsom -- don ' t sleep of night -- do not enjoy themselv much , as a gener thing ; -- no , I never go as a passeng ; nor , though I am someth of a salt , do I ever go to sea as a commodor , or a captain , or a cook . I abandon the glori and distinct of such offic to those who like them . for my part , I abomin all honour respect toil , trial , and tribul of everi kind whatsoev . It is quit as much as I can do to take care of myself , without take care of ship , barqu , brig , schooner , and what not . and as for go as cook , -- though I confess there is consider glori in that , a cook be a sort of offic on ship - board -- yet , somehow , I never fanci broil fowl ; -- though onc broil , judici butter , and judgmat salt and pepper , there is no one who will speak more respect , not to say reverenti , of a broil fowl than I will . It is out of the idolatr dote of the old egyptian upon broil ibi and roast river hors , that you see the mummi of those creatur in their huge bake - hous the pyramid . No , when I go to sea , I go as a simpl sailor , right befor the mast , plumb down into the forecastl , aloft there to the royal mast - head . true , they rather order me about some , and make me jump from spar to spar , like a grasshopp in a may meadow . and at first , thi sort of thing is unpleas enough . It touch one ' s sens of honour , particularli if you come of an old establish famili in the land , the van renssela , or randolph , or hardicanut . and more than all , if just previou to put your hand into the tar - pot , you have been lord it as a countri schoolmast , make the tallest boy stand in awe of you . the transit is a keen one , I assur you , from a schoolmast to a sailor , and requir a strong decoct of seneca and the stoic to enabl you to grin and bear it . but even thi wear off in time . what of it , if some old hunk of a sea - captain order me to get a broom and sweep down the deck ? what doe that indign amount to , weigh , I mean , in the scale of the new testament ? Do you think the archangel gabriel think anyth the less of me , becaus I promptli and respect obey that old hunk in that particular instanc ? who ain ' t a slave ? tell me that . well , then , howev the old sea - captain may order me about -- howev they may thump and punch me about , I have the satisfact of know that it is all right ; that everybodi els is one way or other serv in much the same way -- either in a physic or metaphys point of view , that is ; and so the univers thump is pass round , and all hand should rub each other ' s shoulder - blade , and be content . again , I alway go to sea as a sailor , becaus they make a point of pay me for my troubl , wherea they never pay passeng a singl penni that I ever heard of . On the contrari , passeng themselv must pay . and there is all the differ in the world between pay and be paid . the act of pay is perhap the most uncomfort inflict that the two orchard thiev entail upon us . but be paid , -- what will compar with it ? the urban activ with which a man receiv money is realli marvel , consid that we so earnestli believ money to be the root of all earthli ill , and that on no account can a moni man enter heaven . Ah ! how cheer we consign ourselv to perdit ! final , I alway go to sea as a sailor , becaus of the wholesom exercis and pure air of the fore - castl deck . for as in thi world , head wind are far more preval than wind from astern ( that is , if you never violat the pythagorean maxim ) , so for the most part the commodor on the quarter - deck get hi atmospher at second hand from the sailor on the forecastl . He think he breath it first ; but not so . In much the same way do the commonalti lead their leader in mani other thing , at the same time that the leader littl suspect it . but wherefor it wa that after have repeatedli smelt the sea as a merchant sailor , I should now take it into my head to go on a whale voyag ; thi the invis polic offic of the fate , who ha the constant surveil of me , and secretli dog me , and influenc me in some unaccount way -- he can better answer than ani one els . and , doubtless , my go on thi whale voyag , form part of the grand programm of provid that wa drawn up a long time ago . It came in as a sort of brief interlud and solo between more extens perform . I take it that thi part of the bill must have run someth like thi : `` grand contest elect for the presid OF the unit state . `` whale voyag BY one ishmael . `` bloodi battl IN affghanistan . '' though I can not tell whi it wa exactli that those stage manag , the fate , put me down for thi shabbi part of a whale voyag , when other were set down for magnific part in high tragedi , and short and easi part in genteel comedi , and jolli part in farc -- though I can not tell whi thi wa exactli ; yet , now that I recal all the circumst , I think I can see a littl into the spring and motiv which be cunningli present to me under variou disguis , induc me to set about perform the part I did , besid cajol me into the delus that it wa a choic result from my own unbias freewil and discrimin judgment . chief among these motiv wa the overwhelm idea of the great whale himself . such a portent and mysteri monster rous all my curios . then the wild and distant sea where he roll hi island bulk ; the undeliver , nameless peril of the whale ; these , with all the attend marvel of a thousand patagonian sight and sound , help to sway me to my wish . with other men , perhap , such thing would not have been induc ; but as for me , I am torment with an everlast itch for thing remot . I love to sail forbidden sea , and land on barbar coast . not ignor what is good , I am quick to perceiv a horror , and could still be social with it -- would they let me -- sinc it is but well to be on friendli term with all the inmat of the place one lodg in . By reason of these thing , then , the whale voyag wa welcom ; the great flood - gate of the wonder - world swung open , and in the wild conceit that sway me to my purpos , two and two there float into my inmost soul , endless process of the whale , and , mid most of them all , one grand hood phantom , like a snow hill in the air . chapter 2 the carpet - bag . I stuf a shirt or two into my old carpet - bag , tuck it under my arm , and start for cape horn and the pacif . quit the good citi of old manhatto , I duli arriv in new bedford . It wa a saturday night in decemb . much wa I disappoint upon learn that the littl packet for nantucket had alreadi sail , and that no way of reach that place would offer , till the follow monday . As most young candid for the pain and penalti of whale stop at thi same new bedford , thenc to embark on their voyag , it may as well be relat that I , for one , had no idea of so do . for my mind wa made up to sail in no other than a nantucket craft , becaus there wa a fine , boister someth about everyth connect with that famou old island , which amazingli pleas me . besid though new bedford ha of late been gradual monopolis the busi of whale , and though in thi matter poor old nantucket is now much behind her , yet nantucket wa her great origin -- the tyre of thi carthag ; -- the place where the first dead american whale wa strand . where els but from nantucket did those aborigin whalemen , the red - men , first salli out in cano to give chase to the leviathan ? and where but from nantucket , too , did that first adventur littl sloop put forth , partli laden with import cobbleston -- so goe the stori -- to throw at the whale , in order to discov when they were nigh enough to risk a harpoon from the bowsprit ? now have a night , a day , and still anoth night follow befor me in new bedford , ere I could embark for my destin port , it becam a matter of concern where I wa to eat and sleep meanwhil . It wa a veri dubiou - look , nay , a veri dark and dismal night , bitingli cold and cheerless . I knew no one in the place . with anxiou grapnel I had sound my pocket , and onli brought up a few piec of silver , -- So , wherev you go , ishmael , said I to myself , as I stood in the middl of a dreari street shoulder my bag , and compar the gloom toward the north with the dark toward the south -- wherev in your wisdom you may conclud to lodg for the night , my dear ishmael , be sure to inquir the price , and don ' t be too particular . with halt step I pace the street , and pass the sign of `` the cross harpoon `` -- but it look too expens and jolli there . further on , from the bright red window of the `` sword - fish inn , '' there came such fervent ray , that it seem to have melt the pack snow and ice from befor the hous , for everywher els the congeal frost lay ten inch thick in a hard , asphalt pavement , -- rather weari for me , when I struck my foot against the flinti project , becaus from hard , remorseless servic the sole of my boot were in a most miser plight . too expens and jolli , again thought I , paus one moment to watch the broad glare in the street , and hear the sound of the tinkl glass within . but go on , ishmael , said I at last ; don ' t you hear ? get away from befor the door ; your patch boot are stop the way . So on I went . I now by instinct follow the street that took me waterward , for there , doubtless , were the cheapest , if not the cheeriest inn . such dreari street ! block of black , not hous , on either hand , and here and there a candl , like a candl move about in a tomb . At thi hour of the night , of the last day of the week , that quarter of the town prove all but desert . but present I came to a smoki light proceed from a low , wide build , the door of which stood invitingli open . It had a careless look , as if it were meant for the use of the public ; so , enter , the first thing I did wa to stumbl over an ash - box in the porch . Ha ! thought I , ha , as the fli particl almost choke me , are these ash from that destroy citi , gomorrah ? but `` the cross harpoon , '' and `` the sword - fish ? '' -- thi , then must need be the sign of `` the trap . '' howev , I pick myself up and hear a loud voic within , push on and open a second , interior door . It seem the great black parliament sit in tophet . A hundr black face turn round in their row to peer ; and beyond , a black angel of doom wa beat a book in a pulpit . It wa a negro church ; and the preacher ' s text wa about the black of dark , and the weep and wail and teeth - gnash there . Ha , ishmael , mutter I , back out , wretch entertain at the sign of ' the trap ! ' move on , I at last came to a dim sort of light not far from the dock , and heard a forlorn creak in the air ; and look up , saw a swing sign over the door with a white paint upon it , faintli repres a tall straight jet of misti spray , and these word underneath -- '' the spouter inn : -- peter coffin . '' coffin ? -- spouter ? -- rather omin in that particular connexion , thought I . but it is a common name in nantucket , they say , and I suppos thi peter here is an emigr from there . As the light look so dim , and the place , for the time , look quiet enough , and the dilapid littl wooden hous itself look as if it might have been cart here from the ruin of some burnt district , and as the swing sign had a poverti - stricken sort of creak to it , I thought that here wa the veri spot for cheap lodg , and the best of pea coffe . It wa a queer sort of place -- a gabl - end old hous , one side palsi as it were , and lean over sadli . It stood on a sharp bleak corner , where that tempestu wind euroclydon kept up a wors howl than ever it did about poor paul ' s toss craft . euroclydon , nevertheless , is a mighti pleasant zephyr to ani one in - door , with hi feet on the hob quietli toast for bed . `` In judg of that tempestu wind call euroclydon , '' say an old writer -- of whose work I possess the onli copi extant -- '' it maketh a marvel differ , whether thou lookest out at it from a glass window where the frost is all on the outsid , or whether thou observest it from that sashless window , where the frost is on both side , and of which the wight death is the onli glazier . '' true enough , thought I , as thi passag occur to my mind -- old black - letter , thou reasonest well . ye , these eye are window , and thi bodi of mine is the hous . what a piti they didn ' t stop up the chink and the cranni though , and thrust in a littl lint here and there . but it ' s too late to make ani improv now . the univers is finish ; the copeston is on , and the chip were cart off a million year ago . poor lazaru there , chatter hi teeth against the curbston for hi pillow , and shake off hi tatter with hi shiver , he might plug up both ear with rag , and put a corn - cob into hi mouth , and yet that would not keep out the tempestu euroclydon . euroclydon ! say old dive , in hi red silken wrapper -- ( he had a redder one afterward ) pooh , pooh ! what a fine frosti night ; how orion glitter ; what northern light ! let them talk of their orient summer clime of everlast conservatori ; give me the privileg of make my own summer with my own coal . but what think lazaru ? can he warm hi blue hand by hold them up to the grand northern light ? would not lazaru rather be in sumatra than here ? would he not far rather lay him down lengthwis along the line of the equat ; yea , ye god ! go down to the fieri pit itself , in order to keep out thi frost ? now , that lazaru should lie strand there on the curbston befor the door of dive , thi is more wonder than that an iceberg should be moor to one of the molucca . yet dive himself , he too live like a czar in an ice palac made of frozen sigh , and be a presid of a temper societi , he onli drink the tepid tear of orphan . but no more of thi blubber now , we are go a - whale , and there is plenti of that yet to come . let us scrape the ice from our frost feet , and see what sort of a place thi `` spouter `` may be . chapter 3 the spouter - inn . enter that gabl - end spouter - inn , you found yourself in a wide , low , straggl entri with old - fashion wainscot , remind one of the bulwark of some condemn old craft . On one side hung a veri larg oilpaint so thoroughli besmok , and everi way defac , that in the unequ crosslight by which you view it , it wa onli by dilig studi and a seri of systemat visit to it , and care inquiri of the neighbor , that you could ani way arriv at an understand of it purpos . such unaccount mass of shade and shadow , that at first you almost thought some ambiti young artist , in the time of the new england hag , had endeavor to delin chao bewitch . but by dint of much and earnest contempl , and oft repeat ponder , and especi by throw open the littl window toward the back of the entri , you at last come to the conclus that such an idea , howev wild , might not be altogeth unwarr . but what most puzzl and confound you wa a long , limber , portent , black mass of someth hover in the centr of the pictur over three blue , dim , perpendicular line float in a nameless yeast . A boggi , soggi , squitchi pictur truli , enough to drive a nervou man distract . yet wa there a sort of indefinit , half - attain , unimagin sublim about it that fairli froze you to it , till you involuntarili took an oath with yourself to find out what that marvel paint meant . ever and anon a bright , but , ala , decept idea would dart you through . -- It ' s the black sea in a midnight gale . -- It ' s the unnatur combat of the four primal element . -- It ' s a blast heath . -- It ' s a hyperborean winter scene . -- It ' s the break - up of the icebound stream of time . but at last all these fanci yield to that one portent someth in the pictur ' s midst . that onc found out , and all the rest were plain . but stop ; doe it not bear a faint resembl to a gigant fish ? even the great leviathan himself ? In fact , the artist ' s design seem thi : a final theori of my own , partli base upon the aggreg opinion of mani age person with whom I convers upon the subject . the pictur repres a cape - horner in a great hurrican ; the half - founder ship welter there with it three dismantl mast alon visibl ; and an exasper whale , purpos to spring clean over the craft , is in the enorm act of impal himself upon the three mast - head . the opposit wall of thi entri wa hung all over with a heathenish array of monstrou club and spear . some were thickli set with glitter teeth resembl ivori saw ; other were tuft with knot of human hair ; and one wa sickl - shape , with a vast handl sweep round like the segment made in the new - mown grass by a long - arm mower . you shudder as you gaze , and wonder what monstrou cannib and savag could ever have gone a death - harvest with such a hack , horrifi implement . mix with these were rusti old whale lanc and harpoon all broken and deform . some were stori weapon . with thi onc long lanc , now wildli elbow , fifti year ago did nathan swain kill fifteen whale between a sunris and a sunset . and that harpoon -- so like a corkscrew now -- wa flung in javan sea , and run away with by a whale , year afterward slain off the cape of blanco . the origin iron enter nigh the tail , and , like a restless needl sojourn in the bodi of a man , travel full forti feet , and at last wa found imbed in the hump . cross thi duski entri , and on through yon low - arch way -- cut through what in old time must have been a great central chimney with fireplac all round -- you enter the public room . A still duskier place is thi , with such low ponder beam abov , and such old wrinkl plank beneath , that you would almost fanci you trod some old craft ' s cockpit , especi of such a howl night , when thi corner - anchor old ark rock so furious . On one side stood a long , low , shelf - like tabl cover with crack glass case , fill with dusti rariti gather from thi wide world ' s remotest nook . project from the further angl of the room stand a dark - look den -- the bar -- a rude attempt at a right whale ' s head . Be that how it may , there stand the vast arch bone of the whale ' s jaw , so wide , a coach might almost drive beneath it . within are shabbi shelv , rang round with old decant , bottl , flask ; and in those jaw of swift destruct , like anoth curs jonah ( by which name inde they call him ) , bustl a littl wither old man , who , for their money , dearli sell the sailor delirium and death . abomin are the tumbler into which he pour hi poison . though true cylind without -- within , the villan green goggl glass deceit taper downward to a cheat bottom . parallel meridian rude peck into the glass , surround these footpad ' goblet . fill to thi mark , and your charg is but a penni ; to thi a penni more ; and so on to the full glass -- the cape horn measur , which you may gulp down for a shill . upon enter the place I found a number of young seamen gather about a tabl , examin by a dim light diver specimen of skrimshand . I sought the landlord , and tell him I desir to be accommod with a room , receiv for answer that hi hous wa full -- not a bed unoccupi . `` but avast , '' he ad , tap hi forehead , `` you haint no object to share a harpoon ' s blanket , have ye ? I s ' pose you are goin ' a - whalin ' , so you ' d better get use to that sort of thing . '' I told him that I never like to sleep two in a bed ; that if I should ever do so , it would depend upon who the harpoon might be , and that if he ( the landlord ) realli had no other place for me , and the harpoon wa not decidedli objection , whi rather than wander further about a strang town on so bitter a night , I would put up with the half of ani decent man ' s blanket . `` I thought so . all right ; take a seat . supper ? -- you want supper ? supper ' ll be readi directli . '' I sat down on an old wooden settl , carv all over like a bench on the batteri . At one end a rumin tar wa still further adorn it with hi jack - knife , stoop over and dilig work away at the space between hi leg . He wa tri hi hand at a ship under full sail , but he didn ' t make much headway , I thought . At last some four or five of us were summon to our meal in an adjoin room . It wa cold as iceland -- no fire at all -- the landlord said he couldn ' t afford it . noth but two dismal tallow candl , each in a wind sheet . We were fain to button up our monkey jacket , and hold to our lip cup of scald tea with our half frozen finger . but the fare wa of the most substanti kind -- not onli meat and potato , but dumpl ; good heaven ! dumpl for supper ! one young fellow in a green box coat , address himself to these dumpl in a most dire manner . `` My boy , '' said the landlord , `` you ' ll have the nightmar to a dead sartainti . '' `` landlord , '' I whisper , `` that aint the harpoon is it ? '' `` Oh , no , '' said he , look a sort of diabol funni , `` the harpoon is a dark complexion chap . He never eat dumpl , he don ' t -- he eat noth but steak , and he like ' em rare . '' `` the devil he doe , '' say I . `` where is that harpoon ? Is he here ? '' `` He ' ll be here afor long , '' wa the answer . I could not help it , but I began to feel suspici of thi `` dark complexion `` harpoon . At ani rate , I made up my mind that if it so turn out that we should sleep togeth , he must undress and get into bed befor I did . supper over , the compani went back to the bar - room , when , know not what els to do with myself , I resolv to spend the rest of the even as a looker on . present a riot nois wa heard without . start up , the landlord cri , `` that ' s the grampu ' s crew . I seed her report in the of thi morn ; a three year ' voyag , and a full ship . hurrah , boy ; now we ' ll have the latest news from the feege . '' A tramp of sea boot wa heard in the entri ; the door wa flung open , and in roll a wild set of marin enough . envelop in their shaggi watch coat , and with their head muffl in woollen comfort , all bedarn and rag , and their beard stiff with icicl , they seem an erupt of bear from labrador . they had just land from their boat , and thi wa the first hous they enter . No wonder , then , that they made a straight wake for the whale ' s mouth -- the bar -- when the wrinkl littl old jonah , there offici , soon pour them out brimmer all round . one complain of a bad cold in hi head , upon which jonah mix him a pitch - like potion of gin and molass , which he swore wa a sovereign cure for all cold and catarrh whatsoev , never mind of how long stand , or whether caught off the coast of labrador , or on the weather side of an ice - island . the liquor soon mount into their head , as it gener doe even with the arrantest toper newli land from sea , and they began caper about most obstreper . I observ , howev , that one of them held somewhat aloof , and though he seem desir not to spoil the hilar of hi shipmat by hi own sober face , yet upon the whole he refrain from make as much nois as the rest . thi man interest me at onc ; and sinc the sea - god had ordain that he should soon becom my shipmat ( though but a sleep - partner one , so far as thi narr is concern ) , I will here ventur upon a littl descript of him . He stood full six feet in height , with nobl shoulder , and a chest like a coffer - dam . I have seldom seen such brawn in a man . hi face wa deepli brown and burnt , make hi white teeth dazzl by the contrast ; while in the deep shadow of hi eye float some reminisc that did not seem to give him much joy . hi voic at onc announc that he wa a southern , and from hi fine statur , I thought he must be one of those tall mountain from the alleghanian ridg in virginia . when the revelri of hi companion had mount to it height , thi man slip away unobserv , and I saw no more of him till he becam my comrad on the sea . In a few minut , howev , he wa miss by hi shipmat , and be , it seem , for some reason a huge favourit with them , they rais a cri of `` bulkington ! bulkington ! where ' s bulkington ? '' and dart out of the hous in pursuit of him . It wa now about nine o ' clock , and the room seem almost supernatur quiet after these orgi , I began to congratul myself upon a littl plan that had occur to me just previou to the entranc of the seamen . No man prefer to sleep two in a bed . In fact , you would a good deal rather not sleep with your own brother . I don ' t know how it is , but peopl like to be privat when they are sleep . and when it come to sleep with an unknown stranger , in a strang inn , in a strang town , and that stranger a harpoon , then your object indefinit multipli . nor wa there ani earthli reason whi I as a sailor should sleep two in a bed , more than anybodi els ; for sailor no more sleep two in a bed at sea , than bachelor king do ashor . To be sure they all sleep togeth in one apart , but you have your own hammock , and cover yourself with your own blanket , and sleep in your own skin . the more I ponder over thi harpoon , the more I abomin the thought of sleep with him . It wa fair to presum that be a harpoon , hi linen or woollen , as the case might be , would not be of the tidiest , certainli none of the finest . I began to twitch all over . besid , it wa get late , and my decent harpoon ought to be home and go bedward . suppos now , he should tumbl in upon me at midnight -- how could I tell from what vile hole he had been come ? `` landlord ! I ' ve chang my mind about that harpoon . -- I shan ' t sleep with him . I ' ll tri the bench here . '' `` just as you pleas ; I ' m sorri I cant spare ye a tablecloth for a mattress , and it ' s a plaguy rough board here `` -- feel of the knot and notch . `` but wait a bit , skrimshand ; I ' ve got a carpent ' s plane there in the bar -- wait , I say , and I ' ll make ye snug enough . '' So say he procur the plane ; and with hi old silk handkerchief first dust the bench , vigor set to plane away at my bed , the while grin like an ape . the shave flew right and left ; till at last the plane - iron came bump against an indestruct knot . the landlord wa near sprain hi wrist , and I told him for heaven ' s sake to quit -- the bed wa soft enough to suit me , and I did not know how all the plane in the world could make eider down of a pine plank . So gather up the shave with anoth grin , and throw them into the great stove in the middl of the room , he went about hi busi , and left me in a brown studi . I now took the measur of the bench , and found that it wa a foot too short ; but that could be mend with a chair . but it wa a foot too narrow , and the other bench in the room wa about four inch higher than the plane one -- so there wa no yoke them . I then place the first bench lengthwis along the onli clear space against the wall , leav a littl interv between , for my back to settl down in . but I soon found that there came such a draught of cold air over me from under the sill of the window , that thi plan would never do at all , especi as anoth current from the ricketi door met the one from the window , and both togeth form a seri of small whirlwind in the immedi vicin of the spot where I had thought to spend the night . the devil fetch that harpoon , thought I , but stop , couldn ' t I steal a march on him -- bolt hi door insid , and jump into hi bed , not to be waken by the most violent knock ? It seem no bad idea ; but upon second thought I dismiss it . for who could tell but what the next morn , so soon as I pop out of the room , the harpoon might be stand in the entri , all readi to knock me down ! still , look round me again , and see no possibl chanc of spend a suffer night unless in some other person ' s bed , I began to think that after all I might be cherish unwarrant prejudic against thi unknown harpoon . think I , I ' ll wait awhil ; he must be drop in befor long . I ' ll have a good look at him then , and perhap we may becom jolli good bedfellow after all -- there ' s no tell . but though the other boarder kept come in by one , two , and three , and go to bed , yet no sign of my harpoon . `` landlord ! said I , `` what sort of a chap is he -- doe he alway keep such late hour ? '' It wa now hard upon twelv o ' clock . the landlord chuckl again with hi lean chuckl , and seem to be mightili tickl at someth beyond my comprehens . `` No , '' he answer , `` gener he ' s an earli bird -- airley to bed and airley to rise -- ye , he ' s the bird what catch the worm . but to - night he went out a peddl , you see , and I don ' t see what on airth keep him so late , unless , may be , he can ' t sell hi head . '' `` can ' t sell hi head ? -- what sort of a bamboozingli stori is thi you are tell me ? '' get into a tower rage . `` Do you pretend to say , landlord , that thi harpoon is actual engag thi bless saturday night , or rather sunday morn , in peddl hi head around thi town ? '' `` that ' s precis it , '' said the landlord , `` and I told him he couldn ' t sell it here , the market ' s overstock . '' `` with what ? '' shout I . `` with head to be sure ; ain ' t there too mani head in the world ? '' `` I tell you what it is , landlord , '' said I quit calmli , `` you ' d better stop spin that yarn to me -- I ' m not green . '' `` may be not , '' take out a stick and whittl a toothpick , `` but I rayther guess you ' ll be done brown if that ere harpoon hear you a slanderin ' hi head . '' `` I ' ll break it for him , '' said I , now fli into a passion again at thi unaccount farrago of the landlord ' s . `` It ' s broke a ' readi , '' said he . `` broke , '' said I -- '' broke , do you mean ? '' `` sartain , and that ' s the veri reason he can ' t sell it , I guess . '' `` landlord , '' said I , go up to him as cool as Mt . hecla in a snow - storm -- '' landlord , stop whittl . you and I must understand one anoth , and that too without delay . I come to your hous and want a bed ; you tell me you can onli give me half a one ; that the other half belong to a certain harpoon . and about thi harpoon , whom I have not yet seen , you persist in tell me the most mystifi and exasper stori tend to beget in me an uncomfort feel toward the man whom you design for my bedfellow -- a sort of connexion , landlord , which is an intim and confidenti one in the highest degre . I now demand of you to speak out and tell me who and what thi harpoon is , and whether I shall be in all respect safe to spend the night with him . and in the first place , you will be so good as to unsay that stori about sell hi head , which if true I take to be good evid that thi harpoon is stark mad , and I ' ve no idea of sleep with a madman ; and you , sir , you I mean , landlord , you , sir , by tri to induc me to do so knowingli , would therebi render yourself liabl to a crimin prosecut . '' `` wall , '' said the landlord , fetch a long breath , `` that ' s a purti long sarmon for a chap that rip a littl now and then . but be easi , be easi , thi here harpoon I have been tellin ' you of ha just arriv from the south sea , where he bought up a lot of ' balm new zealand head ( great curio , you know ) , and he ' s sold all on ' em but one , and that one he ' s tri to sell to - night , caus to - morrow ' s sunday , and it would not do to be sellin ' human head about the street when folk is goin ' to church . He want to , last sunday , but I stop him just as he wa goin ' out of the door with four head strung on a string , for all the airth like a string of inion . '' thi account clear up the otherwis unaccount mysteri , and show that the landlord , after all , had had no idea of fool me -- but at the same time what could I think of a harpoon who stay out of a saturday night clean into the holi sabbath , engag in such a cannib busi as sell the head of dead idol ? `` depend upon it , landlord , that harpoon is a danger man . '' `` He pay reg ' lar , '' wa the rejoind . `` but come , it ' s get dread late , you had better be turn fluke -- it ' s a nice bed ; sal and me slept in that ere bed the night we were splice . there ' s plenti of room for two to kick about in that bed ; it ' s an almighti big bed that . whi , afor we give it up , sal use to put our sam and littl johnni in the foot of it . but I got a dream and sprawl about one night , and somehow , sam got pitch on the floor , and came near break hi arm . arter that , sal said it wouldn ' t do . come along here , I ' ll give ye a glim in a jiffi ; '' and so say he light a candl and held it toward me , offer to lead the way . but I stood irresolut ; when look at a clock in the corner , he exclaim `` I vum it ' s sunday -- you won ' t see that harpoon to - night ; he ' s come to anchor somewher -- come along then ; DO come ; won ' T ye come ? '' I consid the matter a moment , and then up stair we went , and I wa usher into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnish , sure enough , with a prodigi bed , almost big enough inde for ani four harpoon to sleep abreast . `` there , '' said the landlord , place the candl on a crazi old sea chest that did doubl duti as a wash - stand and centr tabl ; `` there , make yourself comfort now , and good night to ye . '' I turn round from eye the bed , but he had disappear . fold back the counterpan , I stoop over the bed . though none of the most eleg , it yet stood the scrutini toler well . I then glanc round the room ; and besid the bedstead and centr tabl , could see no other furnitur belong to the place , but a rude shelf , the four wall , and a paper fireboard repres a man strike a whale . Of thing not properli belong to the room , there wa a hammock lash up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a larg seaman ' s bag , contain the harpoon ' s wardrob , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . likewis , there wa a parcel of outlandish bone fish hook on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon stand at the head of the bed . but what is thi on the chest ? I took it up , and held it close to the light , and felt it , and smelt it , and tri everi way possibl to arriv at some satisfactori conclus concern it . I can compar it to noth but a larg door mat , ornament at the edg with littl tinkl tag someth like the stain porcupin quill round an indian moccasin . there wa a hole or slit in the middl of thi mat , as you see the same in south american poncho . but could it be possibl that ani sober harpoon would get into a door mat , and parad the street of ani christian town in that sort of guis ? I put it on , to tri it , and it weigh me down like a hamper , be uncommonli shaggi and thick , and I thought a littl damp , as though thi mysteri harpoon had been wear it of a raini day . I went up in it to a bit of glass stuck against the wall , and I never saw such a sight in my life . I tore myself out of it in such a hurri that I gave myself a kink in the neck . I sat down on the side of the bed , and commenc think about thi head - peddl harpoon , and hi door mat . after think some time on the bed - side , I got up and took off my monkey jacket , and then stood in the middl of the room think . I then took off my coat , and thought a littl more in my shirt sleev . but begin to feel veri cold now , half undress as I wa , and rememb what the landlord said about the harpoon ' s not come home at all that night , it be so veri late , I made no more ado , but jump out of my pantaloon and boot , and then blow out the light tumbl into bed , and commend myself to the care of heaven . whether that mattress wa stuf with corn - cob or broken crockeri , there is no tell , but I roll about a good deal , and could not sleep for a long time . At last I slid off into a light doze , and had pretti nearli made a good of toward the land of nod , when I heard a heavi footfal in the passag , and saw a glimmer of light come into the room from under the door . lord save me , think I , that must be the harpoon , the infern head - peddler . but I lay perfectli still , and resolv not to say a word till spoken to . hold a light in one hand , and that ident new zealand head in the other , the stranger enter the room , and without look toward the bed , place hi candl a good way off from me on the floor in one corner , and then began work away at the knot cord of the larg bag I befor spoke of as be in the room . I wa all eager to see hi face , but he kept it avert for some time while employ in unlac the bag ' s mouth . thi accomplish , howev , he turn round -- when , good heaven ! what a sight ! such a face ! It wa of a dark , purplish , yellow colour , here and there stuck over with larg blackish look squar . ye , it ' s just as I thought , he ' s a terribl bedfellow ; he ' s been in a fight , got dread cut , and here he is , just from the surgeon . but at that moment he chanc to turn hi face so toward the light , that I plainli saw they could not be stick - plaster at all , those black squar on hi cheek . they were stain of some sort or other . At first I knew not what to make of thi ; but soon an inkl of the truth occur to me . I rememb a stori of a white man -- a whaleman too -- who , fall among the cannib , had been tattoo by them . I conclud that thi harpoon , in the cours of hi distant voyag , must have met with a similar adventur . and what is it , thought I , after all ! It ' s onli hi outsid ; a man can be honest in ani sort of skin . but then , what to make of hi unearthli complexion , that part of it , I mean , lie round about , and complet independ of the squar of tattoo . To be sure , it might be noth but a good coat of tropic tan ; but I never heard of a hot sun ' s tan a white man into a purplish yellow one . howev , I had never been in the south sea ; and perhap the sun there produc these extraordinari effect upon the skin . now , while all these idea were pass through me like lightn , thi harpoon never notic me at all . but , after some difficulti have open hi bag , he commenc fumbl in it , and present pull out a sort of tomahawk , and a seal - skin wallet with the hair on . place these on the old chest in the middl of the room , he then took the new zealand head -- a ghastli thing enough -- and cram it down into the bag . He now took off hi hat -- a new beaver hat -- when I came nigh sing out with fresh surpris . there wa no hair on hi head -- none to speak of at least -- noth but a small scalp - knot twist up on hi forehead . hi bald purplish head now look for all the world like a mildew skull . had not the stranger stood between me and the door , I would have bolt out of it quicker than ever I bolt a dinner . even as it wa , I thought someth of slip out of the window , but it wa the second floor back . I am no coward , but what to make of thi head - peddl purpl rascal altogeth pass my comprehens . ignor is the parent of fear , and be complet nonpluss and confound about the stranger , I confess I wa now as much afraid of him as if it wa the devil himself who had thu broken into my room at the dead of night . In fact , I wa so afraid of him that I wa not game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactori answer concern what seem inexplic in him . meanwhil , he continu the busi of undress , and at last show hi chest and arm . As I live , these cover part of him were checker with the same squar as hi face ; hi back , too , wa all over the same dark squar ; he seem to have been in a thirti year ' war , and just escap from it with a stick - plaster shirt . still more , hi veri leg were mark , as if a parcel of dark green frog were run up the trunk of young palm . It wa now quit plain that he must be some abomin savag or other ship aboard of a whaleman in the south sea , and so land in thi christian countri . I quak to think of it . A peddler of head too -- perhap the head of hi own brother . He might take a fanci to mine -- heaven ! look at that tomahawk ! but there wa no time for shudder , for now the savag went about someth that complet fascin my attent , and convinc me that he must inde be a heathen . go to hi heavi grego , or wrapal , or dreadnaught , which he had previous hung on a chair , he fumbl in the pocket , and produc at length a curiou littl deform imag with a hunch on it back , and exactli the colour of a three day ' old congo babi . rememb the embalm head , at first I almost thought that thi black manikin wa a real babi preserv in some similar manner . but see that it wa not at all limber , and that it glisten a good deal like polish eboni , I conclud that it must be noth but a wooden idol , which inde it prove to be . for now the savag goe up to the empti fire - place , and remov the paper fire - board , set up thi littl hunch - back imag , like a tenpin , between the andiron . the chimney jamb and all the brick insid were veri sooti , so that I thought thi fire - place made a veri appropri littl shrine or chapel for hi congo idol . I now screw my eye hard toward the half hidden imag , feel but ill at eas meantim -- to see what wa next to follow . first he take about a doubl hand of shave out of hi grego pocket , and place them care befor the idol ; then lay a bit of ship biscuit on top and appli the flame from the lamp , he kindl the shave into a sacrifici blaze . present , after mani hasti snatch into the fire , and still hastier withdraw of hi finger ( wherebi he seem to be scorch them badli ) , he at last succeed in draw out the biscuit ; then blow off the heat and ash a littl , he made a polit offer of it to the littl negro . but the littl devil did not seem to fanci such dri sort of fare at all ; he never move hi lip . all these strang antic were accompani by still stranger guttur nois from the devote , who seem to be pray in a sing - song or els sing some pagan psalmodi or other , dure which hi face twitch about in the most unnatur manner . At last extinguish the fire , he took the idol up veri unceremoni , and bag it again in hi grego pocket as carelessli as if he were a sportsman bag a dead woodcock . all these queer proceed increas my uncomfort , and see him now exhibit strong symptom of conclud hi busi oper , and jump into bed with me , I thought it wa high time , now or never , befor the light wa put out , to break the spell in which I had so long been bound . but the interv I spent in deliber what to say , wa a fatal one . take up hi tomahawk from the tabl , he examin the head of it for an instant , and then hold it to the light , with hi mouth at the handl , he puf out great cloud of tobacco smoke . the next moment the light wa extinguish , and thi wild cannib , tomahawk between hi teeth , sprang into bed with me . I sang out , I could not help it now ; and give a sudden grunt of astonish he began feel me . stammer out someth , I knew not what , I roll away from him against the wall , and then conjur him , whoever or whatev he might be , to keep quiet , and let me get up and light the lamp again . but hi guttur respons satisfi me at onc that he but ill comprehend my mean . `` who - e debel you ? '' -- he at last said -- '' you no speak - e , dam - me , I kill - e . '' and so say the light tomahawk began flourish about me in the dark . `` landlord , for god ' s sake , peter coffin ! '' shout I . `` landlord ! watch ! coffin ! angel ! save me ! '' `` speak - e ! tell - ee me who - ee be , or dam - me , I kill - e ! '' again growl the cannib , while hi horrid flourish of the tomahawk scatter the hot tobacco ash about me till I thought my linen would get on fire . but thank heaven , at that moment the landlord came into the room light in hand , and leap from the bed I ran up to him . `` don ' t be afraid now , '' said he , grin again , `` queequeg here wouldn ' t harm a hair of your head . '' `` stop your grin , '' shout I , `` and whi didn ' t you tell me that that infern harpoon wa a cannib ? '' `` I thought ye know ' d it ; -- didn ' t I tell ye , he wa a peddlin ' head around town ? -- but turn fluke again and go to sleep . queequeg , look here -- you sabbe me , I sabbe -- you thi man sleep you -- you sabbe ? '' `` Me sabbe plenti `` -- grunt queequeg , puf away at hi pipe and sit up in bed . `` you gette in , '' he ad , motion to me with hi tomahawk , and throw the cloth to one side . He realli did thi in not onli a civil but a realli kind and charit way . I stood look at him a moment . for all hi tattoo he wa on the whole a clean , come look cannib . what ' s all thi fuss I have been make about , thought I to myself -- the man ' s a human be just as I am : he ha just as much reason to fear me , as I have to be afraid of him . better sleep with a sober cannib than a drunken christian . `` landlord , '' said I , `` tell him to stash hi tomahawk there , or pipe , or whatev you call it ; tell him to stop smoke , in short , and I will turn in with him . but I don ' t fanci have a man smoke in bed with me . It ' s danger . besid , I ain ' t insur . '' thi be told to queequeg , he at onc compli , and again polit motion me to get into bed -- roll over to one side as much as to say -- I won ' t touch a leg of ye . '' `` good night , landlord , '' said I , `` you may go . '' I turn in , and never slept better in my life . chapter 4 the counterpan . upon wake next morn about daylight , I found queequeg ' s arm thrown over me in the most love and affection manner . you had almost thought I had been hi wife . the counterpan wa of patchwork , full of odd littl parti - colour squar and triangl ; and thi arm of hi tattoo all over with an intermin cretan labyrinth of a figur , no two part of which were of one precis shade -- owe I suppos to hi keep hi arm at sea unmethod in sun and shade , hi shirt sleev irregularli roll up at variou time -- thi same arm of hi , I say , look for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork quilt . inde , partli lie on it as the arm did when I first awok , I could hardli tell it from the quilt , they so blend their hue togeth ; and it wa onli by the sens of weight and pressur that I could tell that queequeg wa hug me . My sensat were strang . let me tri to explain them . when I wa a child , I well rememb a somewhat similar circumst that befel me ; whether it wa a realiti or a dream , I never could entir settl . the circumst wa thi . I had been cut up some caper or other -- I think it wa tri to crawl up the chimney , as I had seen a littl sweep do a few day previou ; and my stepmoth who , somehow or other , wa all the time whip me , or send me to bed supperless , -- my mother drag me by the leg out of the chimney and pack me off to bed , though it wa onli two o ' clock in the afternoon of the 21st june , the longest day in the year in our hemispher . I felt dread . but there wa no help for it , so up stair I went to my littl room in the third floor , undress myself as slowli as possibl so as to kill time , and with a bitter sigh got between the sheet . I lay there dismal calcul that sixteen entir hour must elaps befor I could hope for a resurrect . sixteen hour in bed ! the small of my back ach to think of it . and it wa so light too ; the sun shine in at the window , and a great rattl of coach in the street , and the sound of gay voic all over the hous . I felt wors and wors -- at last I got up , dress , and softli go down in my stocking feet , sought out my stepmoth , and suddenli threw myself at her feet , beseech her as a particular favour to give me a good slipper for my misbehaviour ; anyth inde but condemn me to lie abe such an unendur length of time . but she wa the best and most conscienti of stepmoth , and back I had to go to my room . for sever hour I lay there broad awak , feel a great deal wors than I have ever done sinc , even from the greatest subsequ misfortun . At last I must have fallen into a troubl nightmar of a doze ; and slowli wake from it -- half steep in dream -- I open my eye , and the befor sun - lit room wa now wrap in outer dark . instantli I felt a shock run through all my frame ; noth wa to be seen , and noth wa to be heard ; but a supernatur hand seem place in mine . My arm hung over the counterpan , and the nameless , unimagin , silent form or phantom , to which the hand belong , seem close seat by my bed - side . for what seem age pile on age , I lay there , frozen with the most aw fear , not dare to drag away my hand ; yet ever think that if I could but stir it one singl inch , the horrid spell would be broken . I knew not how thi conscious at last glide away from me ; but wake in the morn , I shudderingli rememb it all , and for day and week and month afterward I lost myself in confound attempt to explain the mysteri . nay , to thi veri hour , I often puzzl myself with it . now , take away the aw fear , and my sensat at feel the supernatur hand in mine were veri similar , in their strang , to those which I experienc on wake up and see queequeg ' s pagan arm thrown round me . but at length all the past night ' s event soberli recur , one by one , in fix realiti , and then I lay onli aliv to the comic predica . for though I tri to move hi arm -- unlock hi bridegroom clasp -- yet , sleep as he wa , he still hug me tightli , as though naught but death should part us twain . I now strove to rous him -- '' queequeg ! '' -- but hi onli answer wa a snore . I then roll over , my neck feel as if it were in a hors - collar ; and suddenli felt a slight scratch . throw asid the counterpan , there lay the tomahawk sleep by the savag ' s side , as if it were a hatchet - face babi . A pretti pickl , truli , thought I ; abe here in a strang hous in the broad day , with a cannib and a tomahawk ! `` queequeg ! -- in the name of good , queequeg , wake ! '' At length , by dint of much wriggl , and loud and incess expostul upon the unbecoming of hi hug a fellow male in that matrimoni sort of style , I succeed in extract a grunt ; and present , he drew back hi arm , shook himself all over like a newfoundland dog just from the water , and sat up in bed , stiff as a pike - staff , look at me , and rub hi eye as if he did not altogeth rememb how I came to be there , though a dim conscious of know someth about me seem slowli dawn over him . meanwhil , I lay quietli eye him , have no seriou misgiv now , and bent upon narrowli observ so curiou a creatur . when , at last , hi mind seem made up touch the charact of hi bedfellow , and he becam , as it were , reconcil to the fact ; he jump out upon the floor , and by certain sign and sound gave me to understand that , if it pleas me , he would dress first and then leav me to dress afterward , leav the whole apart to myself . think I , queequeg , under the circumst , thi is a veri civil overtur ; but , the truth is , these savag have an innat sens of delicaci , say what you will ; it is marvel how essenti polit they are . I pay thi particular compliment to queequeg , becaus he treat me with so much civil and consider , while I wa guilti of great rude ; stare at him from the bed , and watch all hi toilett motion ; for the time my curios get the better of my breed . nevertheless , a man like queequeg you don ' t see everi day , he and hi way were well worth unusu regard . He commenc dress at top by don hi beaver hat , a veri tall one , by the by , and then -- still minu hi trowser -- he hunt up hi boot . what under the heaven he did it for , I can not tell , but hi next movement wa to crush himself -- boot in hand , and hat on -- under the bed ; when , from sundri violent gasp and strain , I infer he wa hard at work boot himself ; though by no law of proprieti that I ever heard of , is ani man requir to be privat when put on hi boot . but queequeg , do you see , wa a creatur in the transit stage -- neither caterpillar nor butterfli . He wa just enough civil to show off hi outlandish in the strangest possibl manner . hi educ wa not yet complet . He wa an undergradu . If he had not been a small degre civil , he veri probabl would not have troubl himself with boot at all ; but then , if he had not been still a savag , he never would have dreamt of get under the bed to put them on . At last , he emerg with hi hat veri much dent and crush down over hi eye , and began creak and limp about the room , as if , not be much accustom to boot , hi pair of damp , wrinkl cowhid one -- probabl not made to order either -- rather pinch and torment him at the first go off of a bitter cold morn . see , now , that there were no curtain to the window , and that the street be veri narrow , the hous opposit command a plain view into the room , and observ more and more the indecor figur that queequeg made , stave about with littl els but hi hat and boot on ; I beg him as well as I could , to acceler hi toilet somewhat , and particularli to get into hi pantaloon as soon as possibl . He compli , and then proceed to wash himself . At that time in the morn ani christian would have wash hi face ; but queequeg , to my amaz , content himself with restrict hi ablut to hi chest , arm , and hand . He then don hi waistcoat , and take up a piec of hard soap on the wash - stand centr tabl , dip it into water and commenc lather hi face . I wa watch to see where he kept hi razor , when lo and behold , he take the harpoon from the bed corner , slip out the long wooden stock , unsheath the head , whet it a littl on hi boot , and stride up to the bit of mirror against the wall , begin a vigor scrape , or rather harpoon of hi cheek . think I , queequeg , thi is use roger ' s best cutleri with a vengeanc . afterward I wonder the less at thi oper when I came to know of what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made , and how exceedingli sharp the long straight edg are alway kept . the rest of hi toilet wa soon achiev , and he proudli march out of the room , wrap up in hi great pilot monkey jacket , and sport hi harpoon like a marshal ' s baton . chapter 5 breakfast . I quickli follow suit , and descend into the bar - room accost the grin landlord veri pleasantli . I cherish no malic toward him , though he had been skylark with me not a littl in the matter of my bedfellow . howev , a good laugh is a mighti good thing , and rather too scarc a good thing ; the more ' s the piti . So , if ani one man , in hi own proper person , afford stuff for a good joke to anybodi , let him not be backward , but let him cheer allow himself to spend and be spent in that way . and the man that ha anyth bounti laughabl about him , be sure there is more in that man than you perhap think for . the bar - room wa now full of the boarder who had been drop in the night previou , and whom I had not as yet had a good look at . they were nearli all whalemen ; chief mate , and second mate , and third mate , and sea carpent , and sea cooper , and sea blacksmith , and harpoon , and ship keeper ; a brown and brawni compani , with boski beard ; an unshorn , shaggi set , all wear monkey jacket for morn gown . you could pretti plainli tell how long each one had been ashor . thi young fellow ' s healthi cheek is like a sun - toast pear in hue , and would seem to smell almost as muski ; he can not have been three day land from hi indian voyag . that man next him look a few shade lighter ; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him . In the complexion of a third still linger a tropic tawn , but slightli bleach withal ; HE doubtless ha tarri whole week ashor . but who could show a cheek like queequeg ? which , bar with variou tint , seem like the and ' western slope , to show forth in one array , contrast climat , zone by zone . `` grub , ho ! '' now cri the landlord , fling open a door , and in we went to breakfast . they say that men who have seen the world , therebi becom quit at eas in manner , quit self - possess in compani . not alway , though : ledyard , the great new england travel , and mungo park , the scotch one ; of all men , they possess the least assur in the parlor . but perhap the mere cross of siberia in a sledg drawn by dog as ledyard did , or the take a long solitari walk on an empti stomach , in the negro heart of africa , which wa the sum of poor mungo ' s perform -- thi kind of travel , I say , may not be the veri best mode of attain a high social polish . still , for the most part , that sort of thing is to be had anywher . these reflect just here are occas by the circumst that after we were all seat at the tabl , and I wa prepar to hear some good stori about whale ; to my no small surpris , nearli everi man maintain a profound silenc . and not onli that , but they look embarrass . ye , here were a set of sea - dog , mani of whom without the slightest bash had board great whale on the high sea -- entir stranger to them -- and duell them dead without wink ; and yet , here they sat at a social breakfast tabl -- all of the same call , all of kindr tast -- look round as sheepishli at each other as though they had never been out of sight of some sheepfold among the green mountain . A curiou sight ; these bash bear , these timid warrior whalemen ! but as for queequeg -- whi , queequeg sat there among them -- at the head of the tabl , too , it so chanc ; as cool as an icicl . To be sure I can not say much for hi breed . hi greatest admir could not have cordial justifi hi bring hi harpoon into breakfast with him , and use it there without ceremoni ; reach over the tabl with it , to the immin jeopardi of mani head , and grappl the beefsteak toward him . but that wa certainli veri coolli done by him , and everi one know that in most peopl ' s estim , to do anyth coolli is to do it genteelli . We will not speak of all queequeg ' s peculiar here ; how he eschew coffe and hot roll , and appli hi undivid attent to beefsteak , done rare . enough , that when breakfast wa over he withdrew like the rest into the public room , light hi tomahawk - pipe , and wa sit there quietli digest and smoke with hi insepar hat on , when I salli out for a stroll . chapter 6 the street . If I had been astonish at first catch a glimps of so outlandish an individu as queequeg circul among the polit societi of a civil town , that astonish soon depart upon take my first daylight stroll through the street of new bedford . In thoroughfar nigh the dock , ani consider seaport will frequent offer to view the queerest look nondescript from foreign part . even in broadway and chestnut street , mediterranean marin will sometim jostl the affright ladi . regent street is not unknown to lascar and malay ; and at bombay , in the apollo green , live yanke have often scare the nativ . but new bedford beat all water street and wap . In these last - mention haunt you see onli sailor ; but in new bedford , actual cannib stand chat at street corner ; savag outright ; mani of whom yet carri on their bone unholi flesh . It make a stranger stare . but , besid the feegeean , tongatobooarr , erromanggoan , pannangian , and brighggian , and , besid the wild specimen of the whale - craft which unheed reel about the street , you will see other sight still more curiou , certainli more comic . there weekli arriv in thi town score of green vermont and new hampshir men , all athirst for gain and glori in the fisheri . they are mostli young , of stalwart frame ; fellow who have fell forest , and now seek to drop the axe and snatch the whale - lanc . mani are as green as the green mountain whenc they came . In some thing you would think them but a few hour old . look there ! that chap strut round the corner . He wear a beaver hat and swallow - tail coat , girdl with a sailor - belt and sheath - knife . here come anoth with a sou '- wester and a bombazin cloak . No town - bred dandi will compar with a countri - bred one -- I mean a downright bumpkin dandi -- a fellow that , in the dog - day , will mow hi two acr in buckskin glove for fear of tan hi hand . now when a countri dandi like thi take it into hi head to make a distinguish reput , and join the great whale - fisheri , you should see the comic thing he doe upon reach the seaport . In bespeak hi sea - outfit , he order bell - button to hi waistcoat ; strap to hi canva trowser . Ah , poor hay - seed ! how bitterli will burst those strap in the first howl gale , when thou art driven , strap , button , and all , down the throat of the tempest . but think not that thi famou town ha onli harpoon , cannib , and bumpkin to show her visitor . not at all . still new bedford is a queer place . had it not been for us whalemen , that tract of land would thi day perhap have been in as howl condit as the coast of labrador . As it is , part of her back countri are enough to frighten one , they look so boni . the town itself is perhap the dearest place to live in , in all new england . It is a land of oil , true enough : but not like canaan ; a land , also , of corn and wine . the street do not run with milk ; nor in the spring - time do they pave them with fresh egg . yet , in spite of thi , nowher in all america will you find more patrician - like hous ; park and garden more opul , than in new bedford . whenc came they ? how plant upon thi onc scraggi scoria of a countri ? Go and gaze upon the iron emblemat harpoon round yonder lofti mansion , and your question will be answer . ye ; all these brave hous and floweri garden came from the atlant , pacif , and indian ocean . one and all , they were harpoon and drag up hither from the bottom of the sea . can herr alexand perform a feat like that ? In new bedford , father , they say , give whale for dower to their daughter , and portion off their niec with a few porpois a - piec . you must go to new bedford to see a brilliant wed ; for , they say , they have reservoir of oil in everi hous , and everi night recklessli burn their length in spermaceti candl . In summer time , the town is sweet to see ; full of fine mapl -- long avenu of green and gold . and in august , high in air , the beauti and bounti hors - chestnut , candelabra - wise , proffer the passer - by their taper upright cone of congreg blossom . So omnipot is art ; which in mani a district of new bedford ha superinduc bright terrac of flower upon the barren refus rock thrown asid at creation ' s final day . and the women of new bedford , they bloom like their own red rose . but rose onli bloom in summer ; wherea the fine carnat of their cheek is perenni as sunlight in the seventh heaven . elsewher match that bloom of their , ye can not , save in salem , where they tell me the young girl breath such musk , their sailor sweetheart smell them mile off shore , as though they were draw nigh the odor molucca instead of the puritan sand . chapter 7 the chapel . In thi same new bedford there stand a whaleman ' s chapel , and few are the moodi fishermen , shortli bound for the indian ocean or pacif , who fail to make a sunday visit to the spot . I am sure that I did not . return from my first morn stroll , I again salli out upon thi special errand . the sky had chang from clear , sunni cold , to drive sleet and mist . wrap myself in my shaggi jacket of the cloth call bearskin , I fought my way against the stubborn storm . enter , I found a small scatter congreg of sailor , and sailor ' wive and widow . A muffl silenc reign , onli broken at time by the shriek of the storm . each silent worshipp seem purpos sit apart from the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunic . the chaplain had not yet arriv ; and there these silent island of men and women sat steadfastli eye sever marbl tablet , with black border , mason into the wall on either side the pulpit . three of them ran someth like the follow , but I do not pretend to quot : -- sacr TO the memori OF john talbot , who , at the age of eighteen , wa lost overboard , near the isl of desol , off patagonia , novemb 1st , 1836 . thi tablet Is erect to hi memori BY hi sister . _____________ sacr TO the memori OF robert long , willi elleri , nathan coleman , walter canni , seth maci , and samuel gleig , form one of the boat ' crew OF the ship eliza who were tow out of sight by a whale , On the off - shore ground in the pacif , decemb 31st , 1839 . thi marbl Is here place by their surviv shipmat . _____________ sacr TO the memori OF the late captain ezekiel hardi , who in the bow of hi boat wa kill by a sperm whale on the coast of japan , august 3d , 1833 . thi tablet Is erect to hi memori BY hi widow . shake off the sleet from my ice - glaze hat and jacket , I seat myself near the door , and turn sideway wa surpris to see queequeg near me . affect by the solemn of the scene , there wa a wonder gaze of incredul curios in hi counten . thi savag wa the onli person present who seem to notic my entranc ; becaus he wa the onli one who could not read , and , therefor , wa not read those frigid inscript on the wall . whether ani of the rel of the seamen whose name appear there were now among the congreg , I knew not ; but so mani are the unrecord accid in the fisheri , and so plainli did sever women present wear the counten if not the trap of some unceas grief , that I feel sure that here befor me were assembl those , in whose unheal heart the sight of those bleak tablet sympathet caus the old wound to bleed afresh . Oh ! ye whose dead lie buri beneath the green grass ; who stand among flower can say -- here , here lie my belov ; ye know not the desol that brood in bosom like these . what bitter blank in those black - border marbl which cover no ash ! what despair in those immov inscript ! what deadli void and unbidden infidel in the line that seem to gnaw upon all faith , and refus resurrect to the be who have placelessli perish without a grave . As well might those tablet stand in the cave of elephanta as here . In what censu of live creatur , the dead of mankind are includ ; whi it is that a univers proverb say of them , that they tell no tale , though contain more secret than the goodwin sand ; how it is that to hi name who yesterday depart for the other world , we prefix so signific and infidel a word , and yet do not thu entitl him , if he but embark for the remotest indi of thi live earth ; whi the life insur compani pay death - forfeitur upon immort ; in what etern , unstir paralysi , and deadli , hopeless tranc , yet lie antiqu adam who die sixti round centuri ago ; how it is that we still refus to be comfort for those who we nevertheless maintain are dwell in unspeak bliss ; whi all the live so strive to hush all the dead ; wherefor but the rumor of a knock in a tomb will terrifi a whole citi . all these thing are not without their mean . but faith , like a jackal , feed among the tomb , and even from these dead doubt she gather her most vital hope . It need scarc to be told , with what feel , on the eve of a nantucket voyag , I regard those marbl tablet , and by the murki light of that darken , dole day read the fate of the whalemen who had gone befor me . ye , ishmael , the same fate may be thine . but somehow I grew merri again . delight induc to embark , fine chanc for promot , it seem -- aye , a stove boat will make me an immort by brevet . ye , there is death in thi busi of whale -- a speechlessli quick chaotic bundl of a man into etern . but what then ? methink we have huge mistaken thi matter of life and death . methink that what they call my shadow here on earth is my true substanc . methink that in look at thing spiritu , we are too much like oyster observ the sun through the water , and think that thick water the thinnest of air . methink my bodi is but the lee of my better be . In fact take my bodi who will , take it I say , it is not me . and therefor three cheer for nantucket ; and come a stove boat and stove bodi when they will , for stave my soul , jove himself can not . chapter 8 the pulpit . I had not been seat veri long ere a man of a certain vener robust enter ; immedi as the storm - pelt door flew back upon admit him , a quick regard eye of him by all the congreg , suffici attest that thi fine old man wa the chaplain . ye , it wa the famou father mappl , so call by the whalemen , among whom he wa a veri great favourit . He had been a sailor and a harpoon in hi youth , but for mani year past had dedic hi life to the ministri . At the time I now write of , father mappl wa in the hardi winter of a healthi old age ; that sort of old age which seem merg into a second flower youth , for among all the fissur of hi wrinkl , there shone certain mild gleam of a newli develop bloom -- the spring verdur peep forth even beneath februari ' s snow . No one have previous heard hi histori , could for the first time behold father mappl without the utmost interest , becaus there were certain engraft cleric peculiar about him , imput to that adventur maritim life he had led . when he enter I observ that he carri no umbrella , and certainli had not come in hi carriag , for hi tarpaulin hat ran down with melt sleet , and hi great pilot cloth jacket seem almost to drag him to the floor with the weight of the water it had absorb . howev , hat and coat and oversho were one by one remov , and hung up in a littl space in an adjac corner ; when , array in a decent suit , he quietli approach the pulpit . like most old fashion pulpit , it wa a veri lofti one , and sinc a regular stair to such a height would , by it long angl with the floor , serious contract the alreadi small area of the chapel , the architect , it seem , had act upon the hint of father mappl , and finish the pulpit without a stair , substitut a perpendicular side ladder , like those use in mount a ship from a boat at sea . the wife of a whale captain had provid the chapel with a handsom pair of red worst man - rope for thi ladder , which , be itself nice head , and stain with a mahogani colour , the whole contriv , consid what manner of chapel it wa , seem by no mean in bad tast . halt for an instant at the foot of the ladder , and with both hand grasp the ornament knob of the man - rope , father mappl cast a look upward , and then with a truli sailor - like but still reverenti dexter , hand over hand , mount the step as if ascend the main - top of hi vessel . the perpendicular part of thi side ladder , as is usual the case with swing one , were of cloth - cover rope , onli the round were of wood , so that at everi step there wa a joint . At my first glimps of the pulpit , it had not escap me that howev conveni for a ship , these joint in the present instanc seem unnecessari . for I wa not prepar to see father mappl after gain the height , slowli turn round , and stoop over the pulpit , deliber drag up the ladder step by step , till the whole wa deposit within , leav him impregn in hi littl quebec . I ponder some time without fulli comprehend the reason for thi . father mappl enjoy such a wide reput for sincer and sanctiti , that I could not suspect him of court notorieti by ani mere trick of the stage . No , thought I , there must be some sober reason for thi thing ; furthermor , it must symbol someth unseen . can it be , then , that by that act of physic isol , he signifi hi spiritu withdraw for the time , from all outward worldli tie and connexion ? ye , for replenish with the meat and wine of the word , to the faith man of god , thi pulpit , I see , is a self - contain stronghold -- a lofti ehrenbreitstein , with a perenni well of water within the wall . but the side ladder wa not the onli strang featur of the place , borrow from the chaplain ' s former sea - fare . between the marbl cenotaph on either hand of the pulpit , the wall which form it back wa adorn with a larg paint repres a gallant ship beat against a terribl storm off a lee coast of black rock and snowi breaker . but high abov the fli scud and dark - roll cloud , there float a littl isl of sunlight , from which beam forth an angel ' s face ; and thi bright face shed a distinct spot of radianc upon the ship ' s toss deck , someth like that silver plate now insert into the victori ' s plank where nelson fell . `` Ah , nobl ship , '' the angel seem to say , `` beat on , beat on , thou nobl ship , and bear a hardi helm ; for lo ! the sun is break through ; the cloud are roll off -- serenest azur is at hand . '' nor wa the pulpit itself without a trace of the same sea - tast that had achiev the ladder and the pictur . it panel front wa in the like of a ship ' s bluff bow , and the holi bibl rest on a project piec of scroll work , fashion after a ship ' s fiddl - head beak . what could be more full of mean ? -- for the pulpit is ever thi earth ' s foremost part ; all the rest come in it rear ; the pulpit lead the world . from thenc it is the storm of god ' s quick wrath is first descri , and the bow must bear the earliest brunt . from thenc it is the god of breez fair or foul is first invok for favour wind . ye , the world ' s a ship on it passag out , and not a voyag complet ; and the pulpit is it prow . chapter 9 the sermon . father mappl rose , and in a mild voic of unassum author order the scatter peopl to condens . `` starboard gangway , there ! side away to larboard -- larboard gangway to starboard ! midship ! midship ! '' there wa a low rumbl of heavi sea - boot among the bench , and a still slighter shuffl of women ' s shoe , and all wa quiet again , and everi eye on the preacher . He paus a littl ; then kneel in the pulpit ' s bow , fold hi larg brown hand across hi chest , uplift hi close eye , and offer a prayer so deepli devout that he seem kneel and pray at the bottom of the sea . thi end , in prolong solemn tone , like the continu toll of a bell in a ship that is founder at sea in a fog -- in such tone he commenc read the follow hymn ; but chang hi manner toward the conclud stanza , burst forth with a peal exult and joy -- `` the rib and terror in the whale , arch over me a dismal gloom , while all god ' s sun - lit wave roll by , and lift me deepen down to doom . `` I saw the open maw of hell , with endless pain and sorrow there ; which none but they that feel can tell -- Oh , I wa plung to despair . `` In black distress , I call my god , when I could scarc believ him mine , He bow hi ear to my complaint -- No more the whale did me confin . `` with speed he flew to my relief , As on a radiant dolphin born ; aw , yet bright , as lightn shone the face of my deliver god . `` My song for ever shall record that terribl , that joy hour ; I give the glori to my god , hi all the merci and the power . nearli all join in sing thi hymn , which swell high abov the howl of the storm . A brief paus ensu ; the preacher slowli turn over the leav of the bibl , and at last , fold hi hand down upon the proper page , said : `` belov shipmat , clinch the last vers of the first chapter of jonah -- ' and god had prepar a great fish to swallow up jonah . ' '' `` shipmat , thi book , contain onli four chapter -- four yarn -- is one of the smallest strand in the mighti cabl of the scriptur . yet what depth of the soul doe jonah ' s deep sealin sound ! what a pregnant lesson to us is thi prophet ! what a nobl thing is that canticl in the fish ' s belli ! how billow - like and boister grand ! We feel the flood surg over us ; we sound with him to the kelpi bottom of the water ; sea - weed and all the slime of the sea is about us ! but what is thi lesson that the book of jonah teach ? shipmat , it is a two - strand lesson ; a lesson to us all as sin men , and a lesson to me as a pilot of the live god . As sin men , it is a lesson to us all , becaus it is a stori of the sin , hard - hearted , suddenli awaken fear , the swift punish , repent , prayer , and final the deliver and joy of jonah . As with all sinner among men , the sin of thi son of amittai wa in hi wil disobedi of the command of god -- never mind now what that command wa , or how convey -- which he found a hard command . but all the thing that god would have us do are hard for us to do -- rememb that -- and henc , he often command us than endeavor to persuad . and if we obey god , we must disobey ourselv ; and it is in thi disobey ourselv , wherein the hard of obey god consist . `` with thi sin of disobedi in him , jonah still further flout at god , by seek to flee from him . He think that a ship made by men will carri him into countri where god doe not reign , but onli the captain of thi earth . He skulk about the wharv of joppa , and seek a ship that ' s bound for tarshish . there lurk , perhap , a hitherto unheed mean here . By all account tarshish could have been no other citi than the modern cadiz . that ' s the opinion of learn men . and where is cadiz , shipmat ? cadiz is in spain ; as far by water , from joppa , as jonah could possibl have sail in those ancient day , when the atlant wa an almost unknown sea . becaus joppa , the modern jaffa , shipmat , is on the most easterli coast of the mediterranean , the syrian ; and tarshish or cadiz more than two thousand mile to the westward from that , just outsid the strait of gibraltar . see ye not then , shipmat , that jonah sought to flee world - wide from god ? miser man ! Oh ! most contempt and worthi of all scorn ; with slouch hat and guilti eye , skulk from hi god ; prowl among the ship like a vile burglar hasten to cross the sea . So disord , self - condemn is hi look , that had there been policemen in those day , jonah , on the mere suspicion of someth wrong , had been arrest ere he touch a deck . how plainli he ' s a fugit ! no baggag , not a hat - box , valis , or carpet - bag , -- no friend accompani him to the wharf with their adieux . At last , after much dodg search , he find the tarshish ship receiv the last item of her cargo ; and as he step on board to see it captain in the cabin , all the sailor for the moment desist from hoist in the good , to mark the stranger ' s evil eye . jonah see thi ; but in vain he tri to look all eas and confid ; in vain essay hi wretch smile . strong intuit of the man assur the marin he can be no innoc . In their gamesom but still seriou way , one whisper to the other -- '' jack , he ' s rob a widow ; '' or , `` joe , do you mark him ; he ' s a bigamist ; '' or , `` harri lad , I guess he ' s the adulter that broke jail in old gomorrah , or belik , one of the miss murder from sodom . '' anoth run to read the bill that ' s stuck against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is moor , offer five hundr gold coin for the apprehens of a parricid , and contain a descript of hi person . He read , and look from jonah to the bill ; while all hi sympathet shipmat now crowd round jonah , prepar to lay their hand upon him . fright jonah trembl , and summon all hi bold to hi face , onli look so much the more a coward . He will not confess himself suspect ; but that itself is strong suspicion . So he make the best of it ; and when the sailor find him not to be the man that is advertis , they let him pass , and he descend into the cabin . `` ' who ' s there ? ' cri the captain at hi busi desk , hurriedli make out hi paper for the custom -- ' who ' s there ? ' Oh ! how that harmless question mangl jonah ! for the instant he almost turn to flee again . but he ralli . ' I seek a passag in thi ship to tarshish ; how soon sail ye , sir ? ' thu far the busi captain had not look up to jonah , though the man now stand befor him ; but no sooner doe he hear that hollow voic , than he dart a scrutin glanc . ' We sail with the next come tide , ' at last he slowli answer , still intent eye him . ' No sooner , sir ? ' -- ' soon enough for ani honest man that goe a passeng . ' Ha ! jonah , that ' s anoth stab . but he swiftli call away the captain from that scent . ' I ' ll sail with ye , ' -- he say , -- ' the passag money how much is that ? -- I ' ll pay now . ' for it is particularli written , shipmat , as if it were a thing not to be overlook in thi histori , ' that he paid the fare thereof ' ere the craft did sail . and taken with the context , thi is full of mean . `` now jonah ' s captain , shipmat , wa one whose discern detect crime in ani , but whose cupid expos it onli in the penniless . In thi world , shipmat , sin that pay it way can travel freeli , and without a passport ; wherea virtu , if a pauper , is stop at all frontier . So jonah ' s captain prepar to test the length of jonah ' s purs , ere he judg him openli . He charg him thrice the usual sum ; and it ' s assent to . then the captain know that jonah is a fugit ; but at the same time resolv to help a flight that pave it rear with gold . yet when jonah fairli take out hi purs , prudent suspicion still molest the captain . He ring everi coin to find a counterfeit . not a forger , ani way , he mutter ; and jonah is put down for hi passag . ' point out my state - room , sir , ' say jonah now , ' I ' m travel - weari ; I need sleep . ' ' thou lookest like it , ' say the captain , ' there ' s thi room . ' jonah enter , and would lock the door , but the lock contain no key . hear him foolishli fumbl there , the captain laugh lowli to himself , and mutter someth about the door of convict ' cell be never allow to be lock within . all dress and dusti as he is , jonah throw himself into hi berth , and find the littl state - room ceil almost rest on hi forehead . the air is close , and jonah gasp . then , in that contract hole , sunk , too , beneath the ship ' s water - line , jonah feel the herald presenti of that stifl hour , when the whale shall hold him in the smallest of hi bowel ' ward . `` screw at it axi against the side , a swing lamp slightli oscil in jonah ' s room ; and the ship , heel over toward the wharf with the weight of the last bale receiv , the lamp , flame and all , though in slight motion , still maintain a perman obliqu with refer to the room ; though , in truth , infal straight itself , it but made obviou the fals , lie level among which it hung . the lamp alarm and frighten jonah ; as lie in hi berth hi torment eye roll round the place , and thi thu far success fugit find no refug for hi restless glanc . but that contradict in the lamp more and more appal him . the floor , the ceil , and the side , are all awri . ' Oh ! so my conscienc hang in me ! ' he groan , ' straight upward , so it burn ; but the chamber of my soul are all in crooked ! ' `` like one who after a night of drunken revelri hie to hi bed , still reel , but with conscienc yet prick him , as the plung of the roman race - hors but so much the more strike hi steel tag into him ; as one who in that miser plight still turn and turn in giddi anguish , pray god for annihil until the fit be pass ; and at last amid the whirl of woe he feel , a deep stupor steal over him , as over the man who bleed to death , for conscienc is the wound , and there ' s naught to staunch it ; so , after sore wrestl in hi berth , jonah ' s prodigi of ponder miseri drag him drown down to sleep . `` and now the time of tide ha come ; the ship cast off her cabl ; and from the desert wharf the uncheer ship for tarshish , all careen , glide to sea . that ship , my friend , wa the first of record smuggler ! the contraband wa jonah . but the sea rebel ; he will not bear the wick burden . A dread storm come on , the ship is like to break . but now when the boatswain call all hand to lighten her ; when box , bale , and jar are clatter overboard ; when the wind is shriek , and the men are yell , and everi plank thunder with trampl feet right over jonah ' s head ; in all thi rage tumult , jonah sleep hi hideou sleep . He see no black sky and rage sea , feel not the reel timber , and littl hear he or heed he the far rush of the mighti whale , which even now with open mouth is cleav the sea after him . aye , shipmat , jonah wa gone down into the side of the ship -- a berth in the cabin as I have taken it , and wa fast asleep . but the frighten master come to him , and shriek in hi dead ear , ' what meanest thou , O , sleeper ! aris ! ' startl from hi lethargi by that dire cri , jonah stagger to hi feet , and stumbl to the deck , grasp a shroud , to look out upon the sea . but at that moment he is sprung upon by a panther billow leap over the bulwark . wave after wave thu leap into the ship , and find no speedi vent run roar fore and aft , till the marin come nigh to drown while yet afloat . and ever , as the white moon show her affright face from the steep gulli in the black overhead , aghast jonah see the rear bowsprit point high upward , but soon beat downward again toward the torment deep . `` terror upon terror run shout through hi soul . In all hi cring attitud , the god - fugit is now too plainli known . the sailor mark him ; more and more certain grow their suspicion of him , and at last , fulli to test the truth , by refer the whole matter to high heaven , they fall to cast lot , to see for whose caus thi great tempest wa upon them . the lot is jonah ' s ; that discov , then how furious they mob him with their question . ' what is thine occup ? whenc comest thou ? thi countri ? what peopl ? but mark now , my shipmat , the behavior of poor jonah . the eager marin but ask him who he is , and where from ; wherea , they not onli receiv an answer to those question , but likewis anoth answer to a question not put by them , but the unsolicit answer is forc from jonah by the hard hand of god that is upon him . `` ' I am a hebrew , ' he cri -- and then -- ' I fear the lord the god of heaven who hath made the sea and the dri land ! ' fear him , O jonah ? aye , well mightest thou fear the lord god then ! straightway , he now goe on to make a full confess ; whereupon the marin becam more and more appal , but still are piti . for when jonah , not yet supplic god for merci , sinc he but too well knew the dark of hi desert , -- when wretch jonah cri out to them to take him and cast him forth into the sea , for he knew that for hi sake thi great tempest wa upon them ; they merci turn from him , and seek by other mean to save the ship . but all in vain ; the indign gale howl louder ; then , with one hand rais invokingli to god , with the other they not unreluctantli lay hold of jonah . `` and now behold jonah taken up as an anchor and drop into the sea ; when instantli an oili calm float out from the east , and the sea is still , as jonah carri down the gale with him , leav smooth water behind . He goe down in the whirl heart of such a masterless commot that he scarc heed the moment when he drop seeth into the yawn jaw await him ; and the whale shoot - to all hi ivori teeth , like so mani white bolt , upon hi prison . then jonah pray unto the lord out of the fish ' s belli . but observ hi prayer , and learn a weighti lesson . for sin as he is , jonah doe not weep and wail for direct deliver . He feel that hi dread punish is just . He leav all hi deliver to god , content himself with thi , that spite of all hi pain and pang , he will still look toward hi holi templ . and here , shipmat , is true and faith repent ; not clamor for pardon , but grate for punish . and how pleas to god wa thi conduct in jonah , is shown in the eventu deliver of him from the sea and the whale . shipmat , I do not place jonah befor you to be copi for hi sin but I do place him befor you as a model for repent . sin not ; but if you do , take heed to repent of it like jonah . '' while he wa speak these word , the howl of the shriek , slant storm without seem to add new power to the preacher , who , when describ jonah ' s sea - storm , seem toss by a storm himself . hi deep chest heav as with a ground - swell ; hi toss arm seem the war element at work ; and the thunder that roll away from off hi swarthi brow , and the light leap from hi eye , made all hi simpl hearer look on him with a quick fear that wa strang to them . there now came a lull in hi look , as he silent turn over the leav of the book onc more ; and , at last , stand motionless , with close eye , for the moment , seem commun with god and himself . but again he lean over toward the peopl , and bow hi head lowli , with an aspect of the deepest yet manliest humil , he spake these word : `` shipmat , god ha laid but one hand upon you ; both hi hand press upon me . I have read ye by what murki light may be mine the lesson that jonah teach to all sinner ; and therefor to ye , and still more to me , for I am a greater sinner than ye . and now how gladli would I come down from thi mast - head and sit on the hatch there where you sit , and listen as you listen , while some one of you read ME that other and more aw lesson which jonah teach to ME , as a pilot of the live god . how be an anoint pilot - prophet , or speaker of true thing , and bidden by the lord to sound those unwelcom truth in the ear of a wick nineveh , jonah , appal at the hostil he should rais , fled from hi mission , and sought to escap hi duti and hi god by take ship at joppa . but god is everywher ; tarshish he never reach . As we have seen , god came upon him in the whale , and swallow him down to live gulf of doom , and with swift slant tore him along ' into the midst of the sea , ' where the eddi depth suck him ten thousand fathom down , and ' the weed were wrap about hi head , ' and all the wateri world of woe bowl over him . yet even then beyond the reach of ani plummet -- ' out of the belli of hell ' -- when the whale ground upon the ocean ' s utmost bone , even then , god heard the engulph , repent prophet when he cri . then god spake unto the fish ; and from the shudder cold and black of the sea , the whale came breech up toward the warm and pleasant sun , and all the delight of air and earth ; and ' vomit out jonah upon the dri land ; ' when the word of the lord came a second time ; and jonah , bruis and beaten -- hi ear , like two sea - shell , still multitudin murmur of the ocean -- jonah did the almighti ' s bid . and what wa that , shipmat ? To preach the truth to the face of falsehood ! that wa it ! `` thi , shipmat , thi is that other lesson ; and woe to that pilot of the live god who slight it . woe to him whom thi world charm from gospel duti ! woe to him who seek to pour oil upon the water when god ha brew them into a gale ! woe to him who seek to pleas rather than to appal ! woe to him whose good name is more to him than good ! woe to him who , in thi world , court not dishonour ! woe to him who would not be true , even though to be fals were salvat ! yea , woe to him who , as the great pilot paul ha it , while preach to other is himself a castaway ! '' He drop and fell away from himself for a moment ; then lift hi face to them again , show a deep joy in hi eye , as he cri out with a heavenli enthusiasm , -- '' but oh ! shipmat ! on the starboard hand of everi woe , there is a sure delight ; and higher the top of that delight , than the bottom of the woe is deep . Is not the main - truck higher than the kelson is low ? delight is to him -- a far , far upward , and inward delight -- who against the proud god and commodor of thi earth , ever stand forth hi own inexor self . delight is to him whose strong arm yet support him , when the ship of thi base treacher world ha gone down beneath him . delight is to him , who give no quarter in the truth , and kill , burn , and destroy all sin though he pluck it out from under the robe of senat and judg . delight , -- top - gallant delight is to him , who acknowledg no law or lord , but the lord hi god , and is onli a patriot to heaven . delight is to him , whom all the wave of the billow of the sea of the boister mob can never shake from thi sure keel of the age . and etern delight and delici will be hi , who come to lay him down , can say with hi final breath -- O father ! -- chiefli known to me by thi rod -- mortal or immort , here I die . I have striven to be thine , more than to be thi world ' s , or mine own . yet thi is noth : I leav etern to thee ; for what is man that he should live out the lifetim of hi god ? '' He said no more , but slowli wave a benedict , cover hi face with hi hand , and so remain kneel , till all the peopl had depart , and he wa left alon in the place . chapter 10 A bosom friend . return to the spouter - inn from the chapel , I found queequeg there quit alon ; he have left the chapel befor the benedict some time . He wa sit on a bench befor the fire , with hi feet on the stove hearth , and in one hand wa hold close up to hi face that littl negro idol of hi ; peer hard into it face , and with a jack - knife gentli whittl away at it nose , meanwhil hum to himself in hi heathenish way . but be now interrupt , he put up the imag ; and pretti soon , go to the tabl , took up a larg book there , and place it on hi lap began count the page with deliber regular ; at everi fiftieth page -- as I fanci -- stop a moment , look vacantli around him , and give utter to a long - drawn gurgl whistl of astonish . He would then begin again at the next fifti ; seem to commenc at number one each time , as though he could not count more than fifti , and it wa onli by such a larg number of fifti be found togeth , that hi astonish at the multitud of page wa excit . with much interest I sat watch him . savag though he wa , and hideous mar about the face -- at least to my tast -- hi counten yet had a someth in it which wa by no mean disagre . you can not hide the soul . through all hi unearthli tattoo , I thought I saw the trace of a simpl honest heart ; and in hi larg , deep eye , fieri black and bold , there seem token of a spirit that would dare a thousand devil . and besid all thi , there wa a certain lofti bear about the pagan , which even hi uncouth could not altogeth maim . He look like a man who had never cring and never had had a creditor . whether it wa , too , that hi head be shave , hi forehead wa drawn out in freer and brighter relief , and look more expans than it otherwis would , thi I will not ventur to decid ; but certain it wa hi head wa phrenolog an excel one . It may seem ridicul , but it remind me of gener washington ' s head , as seen in the popular bust of him . It had the same long regularli grade retreat slope from abov the brow , which were likewis veri project , like two long promontori thickli wood on top . queequeg wa georg washington cannibalist develop . whilst I wa thu close scan him , half - pretend meanwhil to be look out at the storm from the casement , he never heed my presenc , never troubl himself with so much as a singl glanc ; but appear wholli occupi with count the page of the marvel book . consid how sociabl we had been sleep togeth the night previou , and especi consid the affection arm I had found thrown over me upon wake in the morn , I thought thi indiffer of hi veri strang . but savag are strang be ; at time you do not know exactli how to take them . At first they are overaw ; their calm self - collected of simplic seem a socrat wisdom . I had notic also that queequeg never consort at all , or but veri littl , with the other seamen in the inn . He made no advanc whatev ; appear to have no desir to enlarg the circl of hi acquaint . all thi struck me as mighti singular ; yet , upon second thought , there wa someth almost sublim in it . here wa a man some twenti thousand mile from home , by the way of cape horn , that is -- which wa the onli way he could get there -- thrown among peopl as strang to him as though he were in the planet jupit ; and yet he seem entir at hi eas ; preserv the utmost seren ; content with hi own companionship ; alway equal to himself . sure thi wa a touch of fine philosophi ; though no doubt he had never heard there wa such a thing as that . but , perhap , to be true philosoph , we mortal should not be consciou of so live or so strive . So soon as I hear that such or such a man give himself out for a philosoph , I conclud that , like the dyspept old woman , he must have `` broken hi digest . '' As I sat there in that now lone room ; the fire burn low , in that mild stage when , after it first intens ha warm the air , it then onli glow to be look at ; the even shade and phantom gather round the casement , and peer in upon us silent , solitari twain ; the storm boom without in solemn swell ; I began to be sensibl of strang feel . I felt a melt in me . No more my splinter heart and madden hand were turn against the wolfish world . thi sooth savag had redeem it . there he sat , hi veri indiffer speak a natur in which there lurk no civil hypocrisi and bland deceit . wild he wa ; a veri sight of sight to see ; yet I began to feel myself mysteri drawn toward him . and those same thing that would have repel most other , they were the veri magnet that thu drew me . I ' ll tri a pagan friend , thought I , sinc christian kind ha prove but hollow courtesi . I drew my bench near him , and made some friendli sign and hint , do my best to talk with him meanwhil . At first he littl notic these advanc ; but present , upon my refer to hi last night ' s hospit , he made out to ask me whether we were again to be bedfellow . I told him ye ; whereat I thought he look pleas , perhap a littl compliment . We then turn over the book togeth , and I endeavor to explain to him the purpos of the print , and the mean of the few pictur that were in it . thu I soon engag hi interest ; and from that we went to jabber the best we could about the variou outer sight to be seen in thi famou town . soon I propos a social smoke ; and , produc hi pouch and tomahawk , he quietli offer me a puff . and then we sat exchang puff from that wild pipe of hi , and keep it regularli pass between us . If there yet lurk ani ice of indiffer toward me in the pagan ' s breast , thi pleasant , genial smoke we had , soon thaw it out , and left us croni . He seem to take to me quit as natur and unbiddenli as I to him ; and when our smoke wa over , he press hi forehead against mine , clasp me round the waist , and said that henceforth we were marri ; mean , in hi countri ' s phrase , that we were bosom friend ; he would gladli die for me , if need should be . In a countryman , thi sudden flame of friendship would have seem far too prematur , a thing to be much distrust ; but in thi simpl savag those old rule would not appli . after supper , and anoth social chat and smoke , we went to our room togeth . He made me a present of hi embalm head ; took out hi enorm tobacco wallet , and grope under the tobacco , drew out some thirti dollar in silver ; then spread them on the tabl , and mechan divid them into two equal portion , push one of them toward me , and said it wa mine . I wa go to remonstr ; but he silenc me by pour them into my trowser ' pocket . I let them stay . He then went about hi even prayer , took out hi idol , and remov the paper fireboard . By certain sign and symptom , I thought he seem anxiou for me to join him ; but well know what wa to follow , I deliber a moment whether , in case he invit me , I would compli or otherwis . I wa a good christian ; born and bred in the bosom of the infal presbyterian church . how then could I unit with thi wild idol in worship hi piec of wood ? but what is worship ? thought I . Do you suppos now , ishmael , that the magnanim god of heaven and earth -- pagan and all includ -- can possibl be jealou of an insignific bit of black wood ? imposs ! but what is worship ? -- to do the will of god -- that is worship . and what is the will of god ? -- to do to my fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me -- that is the will of god . now , queequeg is my fellow man . and what do I wish that thi queequeg would do to me ? whi , unit with me in my particular presbyterian form of worship . consequ , I must then unit with him in hi ; ergo , I must turn idol . So I kindl the shave ; help prop up the innoc littl idol ; offer him burnt biscuit with queequeg ; salam befor him twice or thrice ; kiss hi nose ; and that done , we undress and went to bed , at peac with our own conscienc and all the world . but we did not go to sleep without some littl chat . how it is I know not ; but there is no place like a bed for confidenti disclosur between friend . man and wife , they say , there open the veri bottom of their soul to each other ; and some old coupl often lie and chat over old time till nearli morn . thu , then , in our heart ' honeymoon , lay I and queequeg -- a cosi , love pair . chapter 11 nightgown . We had lain thu in bed , chat and nap at short interv , and queequeg now and then affection throw hi brown tattoo leg over mine , and then draw them back ; so entir sociabl and free and easi were we ; when , at last , by reason of our confabul , what littl nappish remain in us altogeth depart , and we felt like get up again , though day - break wa yet some way down the futur . ye , we becam veri wake ; so much so that our recumb posit began to grow wearisom , and by littl and littl we found ourselv sit up ; the cloth well tuck around us , lean against the head - board with our four knee drawn up close togeth , and our two nose bend over them , as if our kneepan were warm - pan . We felt veri nice and snug , the more so sinc it wa so chilli out of door ; inde out of bed - cloth too , see that there wa no fire in the room . the more so , I say , becaus truli to enjoy bodili warmth , some small part of you must be cold , for there is no qualiti in thi world that is not what it is mere by contrast . noth exist in itself . If you flatter yourself that you are all over comfort , and have been so a long time , then you can not be said to be comfort ani more . but if , like queequeg and me in the bed , the tip of your nose or the crown of your head be slightli chill , whi then , inde , in the gener conscious you feel most delight and unmistak warm . for thi reason a sleep apart should never be furnish with a fire , which is one of the luxuri discomfort of the rich . for the height of thi sort of delici is to have noth but the blanket between you and your snug and the cold of the outer air . then there you lie like the one warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal . We had been sit in thi crouch manner for some time , when all at onc I thought I would open my eye ; for when between sheet , whether by day or by night , and whether asleep or awak , I have a way of alway keep my eye shut , in order the more to concentr the snug of be in bed . becaus no man can ever feel hi own ident aright except hi eye be close ; as if dark were inde the proper element of our essenc , though light be more congeni to our clayey part . upon open my eye then , and come out of my own pleasant and self - creat dark into the impos and coars outer gloom of the unillumin twelv - o ' clock - at - night , I experienc a disagre revuls . nor did I at all object to the hint from queequeg that perhap it were best to strike a light , see that we were so wide awak ; and besid he felt a strong desir to have a few quiet puff from hi tomahawk . Be it said , that though I had felt such a strong repugn to hi smoke in the bed the night befor , yet see how elast our stiff prejudic grow when love onc come to bend them . for now I like noth better than to have queequeg smoke by me , even in bed , becaus he seem to be full of such seren household joy then . I no more felt unduli concern for the landlord ' s polici of insur . I wa onli aliv to the condens confidenti comfort of share a pipe and a blanket with a real friend . with our shaggi jacket drawn about our shoulder , we now pass the tomahawk from one to the other , till slowli there grew over us a blue hang tester of smoke , illumin by the flame of the new - lit lamp . whether it wa that thi undul tester roll the savag away to far distant scene , I know not , but he now spoke of hi nativ island ; and , eager to hear hi histori , I beg him to go on and tell it . He gladli compli . though at the time I but ill comprehend not a few of hi word , yet subsequ disclosur , when I had becom more familiar with hi broken phraseolog , now enabl me to present the whole stori such as it may prove in the mere skeleton I give . chapter 12 biograph . queequeg wa a nativ of rokovoko , an island far away to the west and south . It is not down in ani map ; true place never are . when a new - hatch savag run wild about hi nativ woodland in a grass clout , follow by the nibbl goat , as if he were a green sapl ; even then , in queequeg ' s ambiti soul , lurk a strong desir to see someth more of christendom than a specimen whaler or two . hi father wa a high chief , a king ; hi uncl a high priest ; and on the matern side he boast aunt who were the wive of unconquer warrior . there wa excel blood in hi vein -- royal stuff ; though sadli vitiat , I fear , by the cannib propens he nourish in hi untutor youth . A sag harbor ship visit hi father ' s bay , and queequeg sought a passag to christian land . but the ship , have her full complement of seamen , spurn hi suit ; and not all the king hi father ' s influenc could prevail . but queequeg vow a vow . alon in hi cano , he paddl off to a distant strait , which he knew the ship must pass through when she quit the island . On one side wa a coral reef ; on the other a low tongu of land , cover with mangrov thicket that grew out into the water . hide hi cano , still afloat , among these thicket , with it prow seaward , he sat down in the stern , paddl low in hand ; and when the ship wa glide by , like a flash he dart out ; gain her side ; with one backward dash of hi foot capsiz and sank hi cano ; climb up the chain ; and throw himself at full length upon the deck , grappl a ring - bolt there , and swore not to let it go , though hack in piec . In vain the captain threaten to throw him overboard ; suspend a cutlass over hi nake wrist ; queequeg wa the son of a king , and queequeg budg not . struck by hi desper dauntless , and hi wild desir to visit christendom , the captain at last relent , and told him he might make himself at home . but thi fine young savag -- thi sea princ of wale , never saw the captain ' s cabin . they put him down among the sailor , and made a whaleman of him . but like czar peter content to toil in the shipyard of foreign citi , queequeg disdain no seem ignomini , if therebi he might happili gain the power of enlighten hi untutor countrymen . for at bottom -- so he told me -- he wa actuat by a profound desir to learn among the christian , the art wherebi to make hi peopl still happier than they were ; and more than that , still better than they were . but , ala ! the practic of whalemen soon convinc him that even christian could be both miser and wick ; infinit more so , than all hi father ' s heathen . arriv at last in old sag harbor ; and see what the sailor did there ; and then go on to nantucket , and see how they spent their wage in that place also , poor queequeg gave it up for lost . thought he , it ' s a wick world in all meridian ; I ' ll die a pagan . and thu an old idol at heart , he yet live among these christian , wore their cloth , and tri to talk their gibberish . henc the queer way about him , though now some time from home . By hint , I ask him whether he did not propos go back , and have a coron ; sinc he might now consid hi father dead and gone , he be veri old and feebl at the last account . He answer no , not yet ; and ad that he wa fear christian , or rather christian , had unfit him for ascend the pure and undefil throne of thirti pagan king befor him . but by and by , he said , he would return , -- as soon as he felt himself baptiz again . for the nonc , howev , he propos to sail about , and sow hi wild oat in all four ocean . they had made a harpoon of him , and that barb iron wa in lieu of a sceptr now . I ask him what might be hi immedi purpos , touch hi futur movement . He answer , to go to sea again , in hi old vocat . upon thi , I told him that whale wa my own design , and inform him of my intent to sail out of nantucket , as be the most promis port for an adventur whaleman to embark from . He at onc resolv to accompani me to that island , ship aboard the same vessel , get into the same watch , the same boat , the same mess with me , in short to share my everi hap ; with both my hand in hi , boldli dip into the potluck of both world . To all thi I joyous assent ; for besid the affect I now felt for queequeg , he wa an experienc harpoon , and as such , could not fail to be of great use to one , who , like me , wa wholli ignor of the mysteri of whale , though well acquaint with the sea , as known to merchant seamen . hi stori be end with hi pipe ' s last die puff , queequeg embrac me , press hi forehead against mine , and blow out the light , we roll over from each other , thi way and that , and veri soon were sleep . chapter 13 wheelbarrow . next morn , monday , after dispos of the embalm head to a barber , for a block , I settl my own and comrad ' s bill ; use , howev , my comrad ' s money . the grin landlord , as well as the boarder , seem amazingli tickl at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and queequeg -- especi as peter coffin ' s cock and bull stori about him had previous so much alarm me concern the veri person whom I now compani with . We borrow a wheelbarrow , and embark our thing , includ my own poor carpet - bag , and queequeg ' s canva sack and hammock , away we went down to `` the moss , '' the littl nantucket packet schooner moor at the wharf . As we were go along the peopl stare ; not at queequeg so much -- for they were use to see cannib like him in their street , -- but at see him and me upon such confidenti term . but we heed them not , go along wheel the barrow by turn , and queequeg now and then stop to adjust the sheath on hi harpoon barb . I ask him whi he carri such a troublesom thing with him ashor , and whether all whale ship did not find their own harpoon . To thi , in substanc , he repli , that though what I hint wa true enough , yet he had a particular affect for hi own harpoon , becaus it wa of assur stuff , well tri in mani a mortal combat , and deepli intim with the heart of whale . In short , like mani inland reaper and mower , who go into the farmer ' meadow arm with their own scyth -- though in no wise oblig to furnish them -- even so , queequeg , for hi own privat reason , prefer hi own harpoon . shift the barrow from my hand to hi , he told me a funni stori about the first wheelbarrow he had ever seen . It wa in sag harbor . the owner of hi ship , it seem , had lent him one , in which to carri hi heavi chest to hi board hous . not to seem ignor about the thing -- though in truth he wa entir so , concern the precis way in which to manag the barrow -- queequeg put hi chest upon it ; lash it fast ; and then shoulder the barrow and march up the wharf . `` whi , '' said I , `` queequeg , you might have known better than that , one would think . didn ' t the peopl laugh ? '' upon thi , he told me anoth stori . the peopl of hi island of rokovoko , it seem , at their wed feast express the fragrant water of young cocoanut into a larg stain calabash like a punchbowl ; and thi punchbowl alway form the great central ornament on the braid mat where the feast is held . now a certain grand merchant ship onc touch at rokovoko , and it command -- from all account , a veri state punctili gentleman , at least for a sea captain -- thi command wa invit to the wed feast of queequeg ' s sister , a pretti young princess just turn of ten . well ; when all the wed guest were assembl at the bride ' s bamboo cottag , thi captain march in , and be assign the post of honour , place himself over against the punchbowl , and between the high priest and hi majesti the king , queequeg ' s father . grace be said , -- for those peopl have their grace as well as we -- though queequeg told me that unlik us , who at such time look downward to our platter , they , on the contrari , copi the duck , glanc upward to the great giver of all feast -- grace , I say , be said , the high priest open the banquet by the immemori ceremoni of the island ; that is , dip hi consecr and consecr finger into the bowl befor the bless beverag circul . see himself place next the priest , and note the ceremoni , and think himself -- be captain of a ship -- as have plain preced over a mere island king , especi in the king ' s own hous -- the captain coolli proce to wash hi hand in the punchbowl ; -- take it I suppos for a huge finger - glass . `` now , '' said queequeg , `` what you tink now ? -- didn ' t our peopl laugh ? '' At last , passag paid , and luggag safe , we stood on board the schooner . hoist sail , it glide down the acushnet river . On one side , new bedford rose in terrac of street , their ice - cover tree all glitter in the clear , cold air . huge hill and mountain of cask on cask were pile upon her wharv , and side by side the world - wander whale ship lay silent and safe moor at last ; while from other came a sound of carpent and cooper , with blend nois of fire and forg to melt the pitch , all betoken that new cruis were on the start ; that one most peril and long voyag end , onli begin a second ; and a second end , onli begin a third , and so on , for ever and for aye . such is the endless , yea , the intoler of all earthli effort . gain the more open water , the brace breez wax fresh ; the littl moss toss the quick foam from her bow , as a young colt hi snort . how I snuf that tartar air ! -- how I spurn that turnpik earth ! -- that common highway all over dent with the mark of slavish heel and hoof ; and turn me to admir the magnanim of the sea which will permit no record . At the same foam - fountain , queequeg seem to drink and reel with me . hi duski nostril swell apart ; he show hi file and point teeth . On , on we flew ; and our of gain , the moss did homag to the blast ; duck and dive her bow as a slave befor the sultan . sideway lean , we sideway dart ; everi ropeyarn tingl like a wire ; the two tall mast buckl like indian cane in land tornado . So full of thi reel scene were we , as we stood by the plung bowsprit , that for some time we did not notic the jeer glanc of the passeng , a lubber - like assembl , who marvel that two fellow be should be so companion ; as though a white man were anyth more dignifi than a whitewash negro . but there were some boobi and bumpkin there , who , by their intens green , must have come from the heart and centr of all verdur . queequeg caught one of these young sapl mimick him behind hi back . I thought the bumpkin ' s hour of doom wa come . drop hi harpoon , the brawni savag caught him in hi arm , and by an almost miracul dexter and strength , sent him high up bodili into the air ; then slightli tap hi stern in mid - somerset , the fellow land with burst lung upon hi feet , while queequeg , turn hi back upon him , light hi tomahawk pipe and pass it to me for a puff . `` capt ! capt ! yell the bumpkin , run toward that offic ; `` capt , capt , here ' s the devil . '' `` hallo , you sir , '' cri the captain , a gaunt rib of the sea , stalk up to queequeg , `` what in thunder do you mean by that ? don ' t you know you might have kill that chap ? '' `` what him say ? '' said queequeg , as he mildli turn to me . `` He say , '' said I , `` that you came near kill - e that man there , '' point to the still shiver greenhorn . `` kill - e , '' cri queequeg , twist hi tattoo face into an unearthli express of disdain , `` ah ! him bevi small - e fish - e ; queequeg no kill - e so small - e fish - e ; queequeg kill - e big whale ! '' `` look you , '' roar the captain , `` I ' ll kill - e you , you cannib , if you tri ani more of your trick aboard here ; so mind your eye . '' but it so happen just then , that it wa high time for the captain to mind hi own eye . the prodigi strain upon the main - sail had part the weather - sheet , and the tremend boom wa now fli from side to side , complet sweep the entir after part of the deck . the poor fellow whom queequeg had handl so roughli , wa swept overboard ; all hand were in a panic ; and to attempt snatch at the boom to stay it , seem mad . It flew from right to left , and back again , almost in one tick of a watch , and everi instant seem on the point of snap into splinter . noth wa done , and noth seem capabl of be done ; those on deck rush toward the bow , and stood eye the boom as if it were the lower jaw of an exasper whale . In the midst of thi constern , queequeg drop deftli to hi knee , and crawl under the path of the boom , whip hold of a rope , secur one end to the bulwark , and then fling the other like a lasso , caught it round the boom as it swept over hi head , and at the next jerk , the spar wa that way trap , and all wa safe . the schooner wa run into the wind , and while the hand were clear away the stern boat , queequeg , strip to the waist , dart from the side with a long live arc of a leap . for three minut or more he wa seen swim like a dog , throw hi long arm straight out befor him , and by turn reveal hi brawni shoulder through the freez foam . I look at the grand and gloriou fellow , but saw no one to be save . the greenhorn had gone down . shoot himself perpendicularli from the water , queequeg , now took an instant ' s glanc around him , and seem to see just how matter were , dive down and disappear . A few minut more , and he rose again , one arm still strike out , and with the other drag a lifeless form . the boat soon pick them up . the poor bumpkin wa restor . all hand vote queequeg a nobl trump ; the captain beg hi pardon . from that hour I clove to queequeg like a barnacl ; yea , till poor queequeg took hi last long dive . wa there ever such unconsci ? He did not seem to think that he at all deserv a medal from the human and magnanim societi . He onli ask for water -- fresh water -- someth to wipe the brine off ; that done , he put on dri cloth , light hi pipe , and lean against the bulwark , and mildli eye those around him , seem to be say to himself -- '' It ' s a mutual , joint - stock world , in all meridian . We cannib must help these christian . '' chapter 14 nantucket . noth more happen on the passag worthi the mention ; so , after a fine run , we safe arriv in nantucket . nantucket ! take out your map and look at it . see what a real corner of the world it occupi ; how it stand there , away off shore , more lone than the eddyston lighthous . look at it -- a mere hillock , and elbow of sand ; all beach , without a background . there is more sand there than you would use in twenti year as a substitut for blot paper . some gamesom wight will tell you that they have to plant weed there , they don ' t grow natur ; that they import canada thistl ; that they have to send beyond sea for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask ; that piec of wood in nantucket are carri about like bit of the true cross in rome ; that peopl there plant toadstool befor their hous , to get under the shade in summer time ; that one blade of grass make an oasi , three blade in a day ' s walk a prairi ; that they wear quicksand shoe , someth like lapland snow - shoe ; that they are so shut up , belt about , everi way inclos , surround , and made an utter island of by the ocean , that to their veri chair and tabl small clam will sometim be found adher , as to the back of sea turtl . but these extravaganza onli show that nantucket is no illinoi . look now at the wondrou tradit stori of how thi island wa settl by the red - men . thu goe the legend . In olden time an eagl swoop down upon the new england coast , and carri off an infant indian in hi talon . with loud lament the parent saw their child born out of sight over the wide water . they resolv to follow in the same direct . set out in their cano , after a peril passag they discov the island , and there they found an empti ivori casket , -- the poor littl indian ' s skeleton . what wonder , then , that these nantucket , born on a beach , should take to the sea for a livelihood ! they first caught crab and quohog in the sand ; grown bolder , they wade out with net for mackerel ; more experienc , they push off in boat and captur cod ; and at last , launch a navi of great ship on the sea , explor thi wateri world ; put an incess belt of circumnavig round it ; peep in at behr ' s strait ; and in all season and all ocean declar everlast war with the mightiest anim mass that ha surviv the flood ; most monstrou and most mountain ! that himmalehan , salt - sea mastodon , cloth with such portent of unconsci power , that hi veri panic are more to be dread than hi most fearless and malici assault ! and thu have these nake nantucket , these sea hermit , issu from their ant - hill in the sea , overrun and conquer the wateri world like so mani alexand ; parcel out among them the atlant , pacif , and indian ocean , as the three pirat power did poland . let america add mexico to texa , and pile cuba upon canada ; let the english overswarm all india , and hang out their blaze banner from the sun ; two third of thi terraqu globe are the nantucket ' s . for the sea is hi ; he own it , as emperor own empir ; other seamen have but a right of way through it . merchant ship are but extens bridg ; arm one but float fort ; even pirat and privat , though follow the sea as highwaymen the road , they but plunder other ship , other fragment of the land like themselv , without seek to draw their live from the bottomless deep itself . the nantucket , he alon resid and riot on the sea ; he alon , in bibl languag , goe down to it in ship ; to and fro plough it as hi own special plantat . there is hi home ; there lie hi busi , which a noah ' s flood would not interrupt , though it overwhelm all the million in china . He live on the sea , as prairi cock in the prairi ; he hide among the wave , he climb them as chamoi hunter climb the alp . for year he know not the land ; so that when he come to it at last , it smell like anoth world , more strang than the moon would to an earthsman . with the landless gull , that at sunset fold her wing and is rock to sleep between billow ; so at nightfal , the nantucket , out of sight of land , furl hi sail , and lay him to hi rest , while under hi veri pillow rush herd of walrus and whale . chapter 15 chowder . It wa quit late in the even when the littl moss came snugli to anchor , and queequeg and I went ashor ; so we could attend to no busi that day , at least none but a supper and a bed . the landlord of the spouter - inn had recommend us to hi cousin hosea hussey of the tri pot , whom he assert to be the proprietor of one of the best kept hotel in all nantucket , and moreov he had assur us that cousin hosea , as he call him , wa famou for hi chowder . In short , he plainli hint that we could not possibl do better than tri pot - luck at the tri pot . but the direct he had given us about keep a yellow warehous on our starboard hand till we open a white church to the larboard , and then keep that on the larboard hand till we made a corner three point to the starboard , and that done , then ask the first man we met where the place wa : these crook direct of hi veri much puzzl us at first , especi as , at the outset , queequeg insist that the yellow warehous -- our first point of departur -- must be left on the larboard hand , wherea I had understood peter coffin to say it wa on the starboard . howev , by dint of beat about a littl in the dark , and now and then knock up a peaceabl inhabit to inquir the way , we at last came to someth which there wa no mistak . two enorm wooden pot paint black , and suspend by ass ' ear , swung from the cross - tree of an old top - mast , plant in front of an old doorway . the horn of the cross - tree were saw off on the other side , so that thi old top - mast look not a littl like a gallow . perhap I wa over sensit to such impress at the time , but I could not help stare at thi gallow with a vagu misgiv . A sort of crick wa in my neck as I gaze up to the two remain horn ; ye , two of them , one for queequeg , and one for me . It ' s omin , think I . A coffin my innkeep upon land in my first whale port ; tombston stare at me in the whalemen ' s chapel ; and here a gallow ! and a pair of prodigi black pot too ! are these last throw out obliqu hint touch tophet ? I wa call from these reflect by the sight of a freckl woman with yellow hair and a yellow gown , stand in the porch of the inn , under a dull red lamp swing there , that look much like an injur eye , and carri on a brisk scold with a man in a purpl woollen shirt . `` get along with ye , '' said she to the man , `` or I ' ll be comb ye ! '' `` come on , queequeg , '' said I , `` all right . there ' s mr . hussey . '' and so it turn out ; Mr . hosea hussey be from home , but leav mr . hussey entir compet to attend to all hi affair . upon make known our desir for a supper and a bed , mr . hussey , postpon further scold for the present , usher us into a littl room , and seat us at a tabl spread with the relic of a recent conclud repast , turn round to us and said -- '' clam or cod ? '' `` what ' s that about cod , ma ' am ? '' said I , with much polit . `` clam or cod ? '' she repeat . `` A clam for supper ? a cold clam ; is that what you mean , mr . hussey ? '' say I , `` but that ' s a rather cold and clammi recept in the winter time , ain ' t it , mr . hussey ? '' but be in a great hurri to resum scold the man in the purpl shirt , who wa wait for it in the entri , and seem to hear noth but the word `` clam , '' mr . hussey hurri toward an open door lead to the kitchen , and bawl out `` clam for two , '' disappear . `` queequeg , '' said I , `` do you think that we can make out a supper for us both on one clam ? '' howev , a warm savori steam from the kitchen serv to beli the appar cheerless prospect befor us . but when that smoke chowder came in , the mysteri wa delight explain . Oh , sweet friend ! hearken to me . It wa made of small juici clam , scarc bigger than hazel nut , mix with pound ship biscuit , and salt pork cut up into littl flake ; the whole enrich with butter , and plenti season with pepper and salt . our appetit be sharpen by the frosti voyag , and in particular , queequeg see hi favourit fish food befor him , and the chowder be surpassingli excel , we despatch it with great expedit : when lean back a moment and bethink me of mr . hussey ' s clam and cod announc , I thought I would tri a littl experi . step to the kitchen door , I utter the word `` cod `` with great emphasi , and resum my seat . In a few moment the savouri steam came forth again , but with a differ flavor , and in good time a fine cod - chowder wa place befor us . We resum busi ; and while pli our spoon in the bowl , think I to myself , I wonder now if thi here ha ani effect on the head ? what ' s that stultifi say about chowder - head peopl ? `` but look , queequeg , ain ' t that a live eel in your bowl ? where ' s your harpoon ? '' fishiest of all fishi place wa the tri pot , which well deserv it name ; for the pot there were alway boil chowder . chowder for breakfast , and chowder for dinner , and chowder for supper , till you began to look for fish - bone come through your cloth . the area befor the hous wa pave with clam - shell . mr . hussey wore a polish necklac of codfish vertebra ; and hosea hussey had hi account book bound in superior old shark - skin . there wa a fishi flavor to the milk , too , which I could not at all account for , till one morn happen to take a stroll along the beach among some fishermen ' s boat , I saw hosea ' s brindl cow feed on fish remnant , and march along the sand with each foot in a cod ' s decapit head , look veri slip - shod , I assur ye . supper conclud , we receiv a lamp , and direct from mr . hussey concern the nearest way to bed ; but , as queequeg wa about to preced me up the stair , the ladi reach forth her arm , and demand hi harpoon ; she allow no harpoon in her chamber . `` whi not ? said I ; `` everi true whaleman sleep with hi harpoon -- but whi not ? '' `` becaus it ' s danger , '' say she . `` ever sinc young stigg come from that unfort ' nt v ' y ' ge of hi , when he wa gone four year and a half , with onli three barrel of ile , wa found dead in my first floor back , with hi harpoon in hi side ; ever sinc then I allow no boarder to take sich danger weepon in their room at night . So , Mr . queequeg `` ( for she had learn hi name ) , `` I will just take thi here iron , and keep it for you till morn . but the chowder ; clam or cod to - morrow for breakfast , men ? '' `` both , '' say I ; `` and let ' s have a coupl of smoke her by way of varieti . '' chapter 16 the ship . In bed we concoct our plan for the morrow . but to my surpris and no small concern , queequeg now gave me to understand , that he had been dilig consult yojo -- the name of hi black littl god -- and yojo had told him two or three time over , and strongli insist upon it everyway , that instead of our go togeth among the whale - fleet in harbor , and in concert select our craft ; instead of thi , I say , yojo earnestli enjoin that the select of the ship should rest wholli with me , inasmuch as yojo purpos befriend us ; and , in order to do so , had alreadi pitch upon a vessel , which , if left to myself , I , ishmael , should infal light upon , for all the world as though it had turn out by chanc ; and in that vessel I must immedi ship myself , for the present irrespect of queequeg . I have forgotten to mention that , in mani thing , queequeg place great confid in the excel of yojo ' s judgment and surpris forecast of thing ; and cherish yojo with consider esteem , as a rather good sort of god , who perhap meant well enough upon the whole , but in all case did not succeed in hi benevol design . now , thi plan of queequeg ' s , or rather yojo ' s , touch the select of our craft ; I did not like that plan at all . I had not a littl reli upon queequeg ' s sagac to point out the whaler best fit to carri us and our fortun secur . but as all my remonstr produc no effect upon queequeg , I wa oblig to acquiesc ; and accordingli prepar to set about thi busi with a determin rush sort of energi and vigor , that should quickli settl that trifl littl affair . next morn earli , leav queequeg shut up with yojo in our littl bedroom -- for it seem that it wa some sort of lent or ramadan , or day of fast , humili , and prayer with queequeg and yojo that day ; how it wa I never could find out , for , though I appli myself to it sever time , I never could master hi liturgi and xxxix articl -- leav queequeg , then , fast on hi tomahawk pipe , and yojo warm himself at hi sacrifici fire of shave , I salli out among the ship . after much prolong saunter and mani random inquiri , I learnt that there were three ship up for three - year ' voyag -- the devil - dam , the tit - bit , and the pequod . devil - dam , I do not know the origin of ; tit - bit is obviou ; pequod , you will no doubt rememb , wa the name of a celebr tribe of massachusett indian ; now extinct as the ancient mede . I peer and pri about the devil - dam ; from her , hop over to the tit - bit ; and final , go on board the pequod , look around her for a moment , and then decid that thi wa the veri ship for us . you may have seen mani a quaint craft in your day , for aught I know ; -- squar - to lugger ; mountain japanes junk ; butter - box galliot , and what not ; but take my word for it , you never saw such a rare old craft as thi same rare old pequod . she wa a ship of the old school , rather small if anyth ; with an old - fashion claw - foot look about her . long season and weather - stain in the typhoon and calm of all four ocean , her old hull ' s complexion wa darken like a french grenadi ' s , who ha alik fought in egypt and siberia . her vener bow look beard . her mast -- cut somewher on the coast of japan , where her origin one were lost overboard in a gale -- her mast stood stiffli up like the spine of the three old king of cologn . her ancient deck were worn and wrinkl , like the pilgrim - worship flag - stone in canterburi cathedr where becket bled . but to all these her old antiqu , were ad new and marvel featur , pertain to the wild busi that for more than half a centuri she had follow . old captain peleg , mani year her chief - mate , befor he command anoth vessel of hi own , and now a retir seaman , and one of the princip owner of the pequod , -- thi old peleg , dure the term of hi chief - mateship , had built upon her origin grotesqu , and inlaid it , all over , with a quaint both of materi and devic , unmatch by anyth except it be thorkil - hake ' s carv buckler or bedstead . she wa apparel like ani barbar ethiopian emperor , hi neck heavi with pendant of polish ivori . she wa a thing of trophi . A cannib of a craft , trick herself forth in the chase bone of her enemi . all round , her unpanel , open bulwark were garnish like one continu jaw , with the long sharp teeth of the sperm whale , insert there for pin , to fasten her old hempen thew and tendon to . those thew ran not through base block of land wood , but deftli travel over sheav of sea - ivori . scorn a turnstil wheel at her reverend helm , she sport there a tiller ; and that tiller wa in one mass , curious carv from the long narrow lower jaw of her hereditari foe . the helmsman who steer by that tiller in a tempest , felt like the tartar , when he hold back hi fieri steed by clutch it jaw . A nobl craft , but somehow a most melancholi ! all nobl thing are touch with that . now when I look about the quarter - deck , for some one have author , in order to propos myself as a candid for the voyag , at first I saw nobodi ; but I could not well overlook a strang sort of tent , or rather wigwam , pitch a littl behind the main - mast . It seem onli a temporari erect use in port . It wa of a conic shape , some ten feet high ; consist of the long , huge slab of limber black bone taken from the middl and highest part of the jaw of the right - whale . plant with their broad end on the deck , a circl of these slab lace togeth , mutual slope toward each other , and at the apex unit in a tuft point , where the loos hairi fibr wave to and fro like the top - knot on some old pottowottami sachem ' s head . A triangular open face toward the bow of the ship , so that the insid command a complet view forward . and half conceal in thi queer tenement , I at length found one who by hi aspect seem to have author ; and who , it be noon , and the ship ' s work suspend , wa now enjoy respit from the burden of command . He wa seat on an old - fashion oaken chair , wriggl all over with curiou carv ; and the bottom of which wa form of a stout interlac of the same elast stuff of which the wigwam wa construct . there wa noth so veri particular , perhap , about the appear of the elderli man I saw ; he wa brown and brawni , like most old seamen , and heavili roll up in blue pilot - cloth , cut in the quaker style ; onli there wa a fine and almost microscop net - work of the minutest wrinkl interlac round hi eye , which must have arisen from hi continu sail in mani hard gale , and alway look to windward ; -- for thi caus the muscl about the eye to becom purs togeth . such eye - wrinkl are veri effectu in a scowl . `` Is thi the captain of the pequod ? '' said I , advanc to the door of the tent . `` suppos it be the captain of the pequod , what dost thou want of him ? '' he demand . `` I wa think of ship . '' `` thou wast , wast thou ? I see thou art no nantucket -- ever been in a stove boat ? '' `` No , sir , I never have . '' `` dost know noth at all about whale , I dare say -- eh ? `` noth , sir ; but I have no doubt I shall soon learn . I ' ve been sever voyag in the merchant servic , and I think that -- '' `` merchant servic be damn . talk not that lingo to me . dost see that leg ? -- I ' ll take that leg away from thi stern , if ever thou talkest of the marchant servic to me again . marchant servic inde ! I suppos now ye feel consider proud of have serv in those marchant ship . but fluke ! man , what make thee want to go a whale , eh ? -- it look a littl suspici , don ' t it , eh ? -- hast not been a pirat , hast thou ? -- didst not rob thi last captain , didst thou ? -- dost not think of murder the offic when thou gettest to sea ? '' I protest my innoc of these thing . I saw that under the mask of these half humor innuendo , thi old seaman , as an insul quakerish nantucket , wa full of hi insular prejudic , and rather distrust of all alien , unless they hail from cape cod or the vineyard . `` but what take thee a - whale ? I want to know that befor I think of ship ye . '' `` well , sir , I want to see what whale is . I want to see the world . '' `` want to see what whale is , eh ? have ye clap eye on captain ahab ? '' `` who is captain ahab , sir ? '' `` aye , aye , I thought so . captain ahab is the captain of thi ship . '' `` I am mistaken then . I thought I wa speak to the captain himself . '' `` thou art speak to captain peleg -- that ' s who ye are speak to , young man . It belong to me and captain bildad to see the pequod fit out for the voyag , and suppli with all her need , includ crew . We are part owner and agent . but as I wa go to say , if thou wantest to know what whale is , as thou tellest ye do , I can put ye in a way of find it out befor ye bind yourself to it , past back out . clap eye on captain ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he ha onli one leg . '' `` what do you mean , sir ? wa the other one lost by a whale ? '' `` lost by a whale ! young man , come nearer to me : it wa devour , chew up , crunch by the monstrousest parmacetti that ever chip a boat ! -- ah , ah ! '' I wa a littl alarm by hi energi , perhap also a littl touch at the hearti grief in hi conclud exclam , but said as calmli as I could , `` what you say is no doubt true enough , sir ; but how could I know there wa ani peculiar feroc in that particular whale , though inde I might have infer as much from the simpl fact of the accid . '' `` look ye now , young man , thi lung are a sort of soft , d ' ye see ; thou dost not talk shark a bit . sure , ye ' ve been to sea befor now ; sure of that ? '' `` sir , '' said I , `` I thought I told you that I had been four voyag in the merchant -- '' `` hard down out of that ! mind what I said about the marchant servic -- don ' t aggrav me -- I won ' t have it . but let us understand each other . I have given thee a hint about what whale is ; do ye yet feel inclin for it ? '' `` I do , sir . '' `` veri good . now , art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale ' s throat , and then jump after it ? answer , quick ! '' `` I am , sir , if it should be posit indispens to do so ; not to be got rid of , that is ; which I don ' t take to be the fact . '' `` good again . now then , thou not onli wantest to go a - whale , to find out by experi what whale is , but ye also want to go in order to see the world ? wa not that what ye said ? I thought so . well then , just step forward there , and take a peep over the weather - bow , and then back to me and tell me what ye see there . '' for a moment I stood a littl puzzl by thi curiou request , not know exactli how to take it , whether humor or in earnest . but concentr all hi crow ' s feet into one scowl , captain peleg start me on the errand . go forward and glanc over the weather bow , I perceiv that the ship swing to her anchor with the flood - tide , wa now obliqu point toward the open ocean . the prospect wa unlimit , but exceedingli monoton and forbid ; not the slightest varieti that I could see . `` well , what ' s the report ? '' said peleg when I came back ; `` what did ye see ? '' `` not much , '' I repli -- '' noth but water ; consider horizon though , and there ' s a squall come up , I think . '' `` well , what doe thou think then of see the world ? Do ye wish to go round cape horn to see ani more of it , eh ? can ' t ye see the world where you stand ? '' I wa a littl stagger , but go a - whale I must , and I would ; and the pequod wa as good a ship as ani -- I thought the best -- and all thi I now repeat to peleg . see me so determin , he express hi willing to ship me . `` and thou mayest as well sign the paper right off , '' he ad -- '' come along with ye . '' and so say , he led the way below deck into the cabin . seat on the transom wa what seem to me a most uncommon and surpris figur . It turn out to be captain bildad , who along with captain peleg wa one of the largest owner of the vessel ; the other share , as is sometim the case in these port , be held by a crowd of old annuit ; widow , fatherless children , and chanceri ward ; each own about the valu of a timber head , or a foot of plank , or a nail or two in the ship . peopl in nantucket invest their money in whale vessel , the same way that you do your in approv state stock bring in good interest . now , bildad , like peleg , and inde mani other nantucket , wa a quaker , the island have been origin settl by that sect ; and to thi day it inhabit in gener retain in an uncommon measur the peculiar of the quaker , onli various and anomal modifi by thing altogeth alien and heterogen . for some of these same quaker are the most sanguinari of all sailor and whale - hunter . they are fight quaker ; they are quaker with a vengeanc . So that there are instanc among them of men , who , name with scriptur name -- a singularli common fashion on the island -- and in childhood natur imbib the state dramat thee and thou of the quaker idiom ; still , from the audaci , dare , and boundless adventur of their subsequ live , strang blend with these unoutgrown peculiar , a thousand bold dash of charact , not unworthi a scandinavian sea - king , or a poetic pagan roman . and when these thing unit in a man of greatli superior natur forc , with a globular brain and a ponder heart ; who ha also by the still and seclus of mani long night - watch in the remotest water , and beneath constel never seen here at the north , been led to think untradit and independ ; receiv all natur ' s sweet or savag impress fresh from her own virgin voluntari and confid breast , and therebi chiefli , but with some help from accident advantag , to learn a bold and nervou lofti languag -- that man make one in a whole nation ' s censu -- a mighti pageant creatur , form for nobl tragedi . nor will it at all detract from him , dramat regard , if either by birth or other circumst , he have what seem a half wil overrul morbid at the bottom of hi natur . for all men tragic great are made so through a certain morbid . Be sure of thi , O young ambit , all mortal great is but diseas . but , as yet we have not to do with such an one , but with quit anoth ; and still a man , who , if inde peculiar , it onli result again from anoth phase of the quaker , modifi by individu circumst . like captain peleg , captain bildad wa a well - to - do , retir whaleman . but unlik captain peleg -- who care not a rush for what are call seriou thing , and inde deem those self - same seriou thing the veriest of all trifl -- captain bildad had not onli been origin educ accord to the strictest sect of nantucket quaker , but all hi subsequ ocean life , and the sight of mani unclad , love island creatur , round the horn -- all that had not move thi nativ born quaker one singl jot , had not so much as alter one angl of hi vest . still , for all thi immut , wa there some lack of common consist about worthi captain peleg . though refus , from conscienti scrupl , to bear arm against land invad , yet himself had illimit invad the atlant and pacif ; and though a sworn foe to human bloodsh , yet had he in hi straight - bodi coat , spill tun upon tun of leviathan gore . how now in the contempl even of hi day , the piou bildad reconcil these thing in the reminisc , I do not know ; but it did not seem to concern him much , and veri probabl he had long sinc come to the sage and sensibl conclus that a man ' s religion is one thing , and thi practic world quit anoth . thi world pay dividend . rise from a littl cabin - boy in short cloth of the drabbest drab , to a harpoon in a broad shad - belli waistcoat ; from that becom boat - header , chief - mate , and captain , and final a ship owner ; bildad , as I hint befor , had conclud hi adventur career by wholli retir from activ life at the goodli age of sixti , and dedic hi remain day to the quiet receiv of hi well - earn incom . now , bildad , I am sorri to say , had the reput of be an incorrig old hunk , and in hi sea - go day , a bitter , hard task - master . they told me in nantucket , though it certainli seem a curiou stori , that when he sail the old categut whaleman , hi crew , upon arriv home , were mostli all carri ashor to the hospit , sore exhaust and worn out . for a piou man , especi for a quaker , he wa certainli rather hard - heart , to say the least . He never use to swear , though , at hi men , they said ; but somehow he got an inordin quantiti of cruel , unmitig hard work out of them . when bildad wa a chief - mate , to have hi drab - colour eye intent look at you , made you feel complet nervou , till you could clutch someth -- a hammer or a marl - spike , and go to work like mad , at someth or other , never mind what . indol and idl perish befor him . hi own person wa the exact embodi of hi utilitarian charact . On hi long , gaunt bodi , he carri no spare flesh , no superflu beard , hi chin have a soft , econom nap to it , like the worn nap of hi broad - brim hat . such , then , wa the person that I saw seat on the transom when I follow captain peleg down into the cabin . the space between the deck wa small ; and there , bolt - upright , sat old bildad , who alway sat so , and never lean , and thi to save hi coat tail . hi broad - brim wa place besid him ; hi leg were stiffli cross ; hi drab vestur wa button up to hi chin ; and spectacl on nose , he seem absorb in read from a ponder volum . `` bildad , '' cri captain peleg , `` at it again , bildad , eh ? Ye have been studi those scriptur , now , for the last thirti year , to my certain knowledg . how far ye got , bildad ? '' As if long habitu to such profan talk from hi old shipmat , bildad , without notic hi present irrever , quietli look up , and see me , glanc again inquiringli toward peleg . `` He say he ' s our man , bildad , '' said peleg , `` he want to ship . '' `` dost thee ? '' said bildad , in a hollow tone , and turn round to me . `` I dost , '' said I unconsci , he wa so intens a quaker . `` what do ye think of him , bildad ? '' said peleg . `` He ' ll do , '' said bildad , eye me , and then went on spell away at hi book in a mumbl tone quit audibl . I thought him the queerest old quaker I ever saw , especi as peleg , hi friend and old shipmat , seem such a bluster . but I said noth , onli look round me sharpli . peleg now threw open a chest , and draw forth the ship ' s articl , place pen and ink befor him , and seat himself at a littl tabl . I began to think it wa high time to settl with myself at what term I would be will to engag for the voyag . I wa alreadi awar that in the whale busi they paid no wage ; but all hand , includ the captain , receiv certain share of the profit call lay , and that these lay were proport to the degre of import pertain to the respect duti of the ship ' s compani . I wa also awar that be a green hand at whale , my own lay would not be veri larg ; but consid that I wa use to the sea , could steer a ship , splice a rope , and all that , I made no doubt that from all I had heard I should be offer at least the 275th lay -- that is , the 275th part of the clear net proce of the voyag , whatev that might eventu amount to . and though the 275th lay wa what they call a rather long lay , yet it wa better than noth ; and if we had a lucki voyag , might pretti nearli pay for the cloth I would wear out on it , not to speak of my three year ' beef and board , for which I would not have to pay one stiver . It might be thought that thi wa a poor way to accumul a princ fortun -- and so it wa , a veri poor way inde . but I am one of those that never take on about princ fortun , and am quit content if the world is readi to board and lodg me , while I am put up at thi grim sign of the thunder cloud . upon the whole , I thought that the 275th lay would be about the fair thing , but would not have been surpris had I been offer the 200th , consid I wa of a broad - shoulder make . but one thing , nevertheless , that made me a littl distrust about receiv a gener share of the profit wa thi : ashor , I had heard someth of both captain peleg and hi unaccount old croni bildad ; how that they be the princip proprietor of the pequod , therefor the other and more inconsider and scatter owner , left nearli the whole manag of the ship ' s affair to these two . and I did not know but what the stingi old bildad might have a mighti deal to say about ship hand , especi as I now found him on board the pequod , quit at home there in the cabin , and read hi bibl as if at hi own firesid . now while peleg wa vainli tri to mend a pen with hi jack - knife , old bildad , to my no small surpris , consid that he wa such an interest parti in these proceed ; bildad never heed us , but went on mumbl to himself out of hi book , `` lay not up for yourselv treasur upon earth , where moth -- '' `` well , captain bildad , '' interrupt peleg , `` what d ' ye say , what lay shall we give thi young man ? '' `` thou knowest best , '' wa the sepulchr repli , `` the seven hundr and seventi - seventh wouldn ' t be too much , would it ? -- ' where moth and rust do corrupt , but lay -- ' '' lay , inde , thought I , and such a lay ! the seven hundr and seventi - seventh ! well , old bildad , you are determin that I , for one , shall not lay up mani lay here below , where moth and rust do corrupt . It wa an exceedingli long lay that , inde ; and though from the magnitud of the figur it might at first deceiv a landsman , yet the slightest consider will show that though seven hundr and seventi - seven is a pretti larg number , yet , when you come to make a teenth of it , you will then see , I say , that the seven hundr and seventi - seventh part of a farth is a good deal less than seven hundr and seventi - seven gold doubloon ; and so I thought at the time . `` whi , blast your eye , bildad , '' cri peleg , `` thou dost not want to swindl thi young man ! he must have more than that . '' `` seven hundr and seventi - seventh , '' again said bildad , without lift hi eye ; and then went on mumbl -- '' for where your treasur is , there will your heart be also . '' `` I am go to put him down for the three hundredth , '' said peleg , `` do ye hear that , bildad ! the three hundredth lay , I say . '' bildad laid down hi book , and turn solemnli toward him said , `` captain peleg , thou hast a gener heart ; but thou must consid the duti thou owest to the other owner of thi ship -- widow and orphan , mani of them -- and that if we too abundantli reward the labor of thi young man , we may be take the bread from those widow and those orphan . the seven hundr and seventi - seventh lay , captain peleg . '' `` thou bildad ! '' roar peleg , start up and clatter about the cabin . `` blast ye , captain bildad , if I had follow thi advic in these matter , I would afor now had a conscienc to lug about that would be heavi enough to founder the largest ship that ever sail round cape horn . '' `` captain peleg , '' said bildad steadili , `` thi conscienc may be draw ten inch of water , or ten fathom , I can ' t tell ; but as thou art still an impenit man , captain peleg , I greatli fear lest thi conscienc be but a leaki one ; and will in the end sink thee founder down to the fieri pit , captain peleg . '' `` fieri pit ! fieri pit ! ye insult me , man ; past all natur bear , ye insult me . It ' s an all - fire outrag to tell ani human creatur that he ' s bound to hell . fluke and flame ! bildad , say that again to me , and start my soul - bolt , but I ' ll -- I ' ll -- ye , I ' ll swallow a live goat with all hi hair and horn on . out of the cabin , ye cant , drab - colour son of a wooden gun -- a straight wake with ye ! '' As he thunder out thi he made a rush at bildad , but with a marvel obliqu , slide celer , bildad for that time elud him . alarm at thi terribl outburst between the two princip and respons owner of the ship , and feel half a mind to give up all idea of sail in a vessel so question own and temporarili command , I step asid from the door to give egress to bildad , who , I made no doubt , wa all eager to vanish from befor the awaken wrath of peleg . but to my astonish , he sat down again on the transom veri quietli , and seem to have not the slightest intent of withdraw . He seem quit use to impenit peleg and hi way . As for peleg , after let off hi rage as he had , there seem no more left in him , and he , too , sat down like a lamb , though he twitch a littl as if still nervous agit . `` whew ! '' he whistl at last -- '' the squall ' s gone off to leeward , I think . bildad , thou use to be good at sharpen a lanc , mend that pen , will ye . My jack - knife here need the grindston . that ' s he ; thank ye , bildad . now then , my young man , ishmael ' s thi name , didn ' t ye say ? well then , down ye go here , ishmael , for the three hundredth lay . '' `` captain peleg , '' said I , `` I have a friend with me who want to ship too -- shall I bring him down to - morrow ? '' `` To be sure , '' said peleg . `` fetch him along , and we ' ll look at him . '' `` what lay doe he want ? '' groan bildad , glanc up from the book in which he had again been buri himself . `` Oh ! never thee mind about that , bildad , '' said peleg . `` ha he ever whale it ani ? '' turn to me . `` kill more whale than I can count , captain peleg . '' `` well , bring him along then . '' and , after sign the paper , off I went ; noth doubt but that I had done a good morn ' s work , and that the pequod wa the ident ship that yojo had provid to carri queequeg and me round the cape . but I had not proceed far , when I began to bethink me that the captain with whom I wa to sail yet remain unseen by me ; though , inde , in mani case , a whale - ship will be complet fit out , and receiv all her crew on board , ere the captain make himself visibl by arriv to take command ; for sometim these voyag are so prolong , and the shore interv at home so exceedingli brief , that if the captain have a famili , or ani absorb concern of that sort , he doe not troubl himself much about hi ship in port , but leav her to the owner till all is readi for sea . howev , it is alway as well to have a look at him befor irrevoc commit yourself into hi hand . turn back I accost captain peleg , inquir where captain ahab wa to be found . `` and what dost thou want of captain ahab ? It ' s all right enough ; thou art ship . '' `` ye , but I should like to see him . '' `` but I don ' t think thou wilt be abl to at present . I don ' t know exactli what ' s the matter with him ; but he keep close insid the hous ; a sort of sick , and yet he don ' t look so . In fact , he ain ' t sick ; but no , he isn ' t well either . ani how , young man , he won ' t alway see me , so I don ' t suppos he will thee . He ' s a queer man , captain ahab -- so some think -- but a good one . Oh , thou ' lt like him well enough ; no fear , no fear . He ' s a grand , ungodli , god - like man , captain ahab ; doesn ' t speak much ; but , when he doe speak , then you may well listen . mark ye , be forewarn ; ahab ' s abov the common ; ahab ' s been in colleg , as well as ' mong the cannib ; been use to deeper wonder than the wave ; fix hi fieri lanc in mightier , stranger foe than whale . hi lanc ! aye , the keenest and the surest that out of all our isl ! Oh ! he ain ' t captain bildad ; no , and he ain ' t captain peleg ; HE ' S ahab , boy ; and ahab of old , thou knowest , wa a crown king ! '' `` and a veri vile one . when that wick king wa slain , the dog , did they not lick hi blood ? '' `` come hither to me -- hither , hither , '' said peleg , with a signific in hi eye that almost startl me . `` look ye , lad ; never say that on board the pequod . never say it anywher . captain ahab did not name himself . ' twa a foolish , ignor whim of hi crazi , widow mother , who die when he wa onli a twelvemonth old . and yet the old squaw tistig , at gayhead , said that the name would somehow prove prophet . and , perhap , other fool like her may tell thee the same . I wish to warn thee . It ' s a lie . I know captain ahab well ; I ' ve sail with him as mate year ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a piou , good man , like bildad , but a swear good man -- someth like me -- onli there ' s a good deal more of him . aye , aye , I know that he wa never veri jolli ; and I know that on the passag home , he wa a littl out of hi mind for a spell ; but it wa the sharp shoot pain in hi bleed stump that brought that about , as ani one might see . I know , too , that ever sinc he lost hi leg last voyag by that accurs whale , he ' s been a kind of moodi -- desper moodi , and savag sometim ; but that will all pass off . and onc for all , let me tell thee and assur thee , young man , it ' s better to sail with a moodi good captain than a laugh bad one . So good - bye to thee -- and wrong not captain ahab , becaus he happen to have a wick name . besid , my boy , he ha a wife -- not three voyag wed -- a sweet , resign girl . think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man ha a child : hold ye then there can be ani utter , hopeless harm in ahab ? No , no , my lad ; stricken , blast , if he be , ahab ha hi human ! '' As I walk away , I wa full of thought ; what had been incident reveal to me of captain ahab , fill me with a certain wild vagu of pain concern him . and somehow , at the time , I felt a sympathi and a sorrow for him , but for I don ' t know what , unless it wa the cruel loss of hi leg . and yet I also felt a strang awe of him ; but that sort of awe , which I can not at all describ , wa not exactli awe ; I do not know what it wa . but I felt it ; and it did not disinclin me toward him ; though I felt impati at what seem like mysteri in him , so imperfectli as he wa known to me then . howev , my thought were at length carri in other direct , so that for the present dark ahab slip my mind . chapter 17 the ramadan . As queequeg ' s ramadan , or fast and humili , wa to continu all day , I did not choos to disturb him till toward night - fall ; for I cherish the greatest respect toward everybodi ' s religi oblig , never mind how comic , and could not find it in my heart to undervalu even a congreg of ant worship a toad - stool ; or those other creatur in certain part of our earth , who with a degre of footman quit unpreced in other planet , bow down befor the torso of a deceas land proprietor mere on account of the inordin possess yet own and rent in hi name . I say , we good presbyterian christian should be charit in these thing , and not fanci ourselv so vastli superior to other mortal , pagan and what not , becaus of their half - crazi conceit on these subject . there wa queequeg , now , certainli entertain the most absurd notion about yojo and hi ramadan ; -- but what of that ? queequeg thought he knew what he wa about , I suppos ; he seem to be content ; and there let him rest . all our argu with him would not avail ; let him be , I say : and heaven have merci on us all -- presbyterian and pagan alik -- for we are all somehow dread crack about the head , and sadli need mend . toward even , when I felt assur that all hi perform and ritual must be over , I went up to hi room and knock at the door ; but no answer . I tri to open it , but it wa fasten insid . `` queequeg , '' said I softli through the key - hole : -- all silent . `` I say , queequeg ! whi don ' t you speak ? It ' s I -- ishmael . '' but all remain still as befor . I began to grow alarm . I had allow him such abund time ; I thought he might have had an apoplect fit . I look through the key - hole ; but the door open into an odd corner of the room , the key - hole prospect wa but a crook and sinist one . I could onli see part of the foot - board of the bed and a line of the wall , but noth more . I wa surpris to behold rest against the wall the wooden shaft of queequeg ' s harpoon , which the landladi the even previou had taken from him , befor our mount to the chamber . that ' s strang , thought I ; but at ani rate , sinc the harpoon stand yonder , and he seldom or never goe abroad without it , therefor he must be insid here , and no possibl mistak . `` queequeg ! -- queequeg ! '' -- all still . someth must have happen . apoplexi ! I tri to burst open the door ; but it stubbornli resist . run down stair , I quickli state my suspicion to the first person I met -- the chamber - maid . `` La ! la ! '' she cri , `` I thought someth must be the matter . I went to make the bed after breakfast , and the door wa lock ; and not a mous to be heard ; and it ' s been just so silent ever sinc . but I thought , may be , you had both gone off and lock your baggag in for safe keep . La ! la , ma ' am ! -- mistress ! murder ! mr . hussey ! apoplexi ! '' -- and with these cri , she ran toward the kitchen , I follow . mr . hussey soon appear , with a mustard - pot in one hand and a vinegar - cruet in the other , have just broken away from the occup of attend to the castor , and scold her littl black boy meantim . `` wood - hous ! '' cri I , `` which way to it ? run for god ' s sake , and fetch someth to pri open the door -- the axe ! -- the axe ! he ' s had a stroke ; depend upon it ! '' -- and so say I wa unmethod rush up stair again empti - hand , when mr . hussey interpos the mustard - pot and vinegar - cruet , and the entir castor of her counten . `` what ' s the matter with you , young man ? '' `` get the axe ! for god ' s sake , run for the doctor , some one , while I pri it open ! '' `` look here , '' said the landladi , quickli put down the vinegar - cruet , so as to have one hand free ; `` look here ; are you talk about pri open ani of my door ? '' -- and with that she seiz my arm . `` what ' s the matter with you ? what ' s the matter with you , shipmat ? '' In as calm , but rapid a manner as possibl , I gave her to understand the whole case . unconsci clap the vinegar - cruet to one side of her nose , she rumin for an instant ; then exclaim -- '' No ! I haven ' t seen it sinc I put it there . '' run to a littl closet under the land of the stair , she glanc in , and return , told me that queequeg ' s harpoon wa miss . `` He ' s kill himself , '' she cri . `` It ' s unfort ' nate stigg done over again there goe anoth counterpan -- god piti hi poor mother ! -- it will be the ruin of my hous . ha the poor lad a sister ? where ' s that girl ? -- there , betti , go to snarl the painter , and tell him to paint me a sign , with -- '' no suicid permit here , and no smoke in the parlor ; '' -- might as well kill both bird at onc . kill ? the lord be merci to hi ghost ! what ' s that nois there ? you , young man , avast there ! '' and run up after me , she caught me as I wa again tri to forc open the door . `` I don ' t allow it ; I won ' t have my premis spoil . Go for the locksmith , there ' s one about a mile from here . but avast ! '' put her hand in her side - pocket , `` here ' s a key that ' ll fit , I guess ; let ' s see . '' and with that , she turn it in the lock ; but , ala ! queequeg ' s supplement bolt remain unwithdrawn within . `` have to burst it open , '' said I , and wa run down the entri a littl , for a good start , when the landladi caught at me , again vow I should not break down her premis ; but I tore from her , and with a sudden bodili rush dash myself full against the mark . with a prodigi nois the door flew open , and the knob slam against the wall , sent the plaster to the ceil ; and there , good heaven ! there sat queequeg , altogeth cool and self - collect ; right in the middl of the room ; squat on hi ham , and hold yojo on top of hi head . He look neither one way nor the other way , but sat like a carv imag with scarc a sign of activ life . `` queequeg , '' said I , go up to him , `` queequeg , what ' s the matter with you ? '' `` He hain ' t been a sittin ' so all day , ha he ? '' said the landladi . but all we said , not a word could we drag out of him ; I almost felt like push him over , so as to chang hi posit , for it wa almost intoler , it seem so pain and unnatur constrain ; especi , as in all probabl he had been sit so for upward of eight or ten hour , go too without hi regular meal . `` mr . hussey , '' said I , `` he ' s aliv at all event ; so leav us , if you pleas , and I will see to thi strang affair myself . '' close the door upon the landladi , I endeavor to prevail upon queequeg to take a chair ; but in vain . there he sat ; and all he could do -- for all my polit art and blandish -- he would not move a peg , nor say a singl word , nor even look at me , nor notic my presenc in the slightest way . I wonder , thought I , if thi can possibl be a part of hi ramadan ; do they fast on their ham that way in hi nativ island . It must be so ; ye , it ' s part of hi creed , I suppos ; well , then , let him rest ; he ' ll get up sooner or later , no doubt . It can ' t last for ever , thank god , and hi ramadan onli come onc a year ; and I don ' t believ it ' s veri punctual then . I went down to supper . after sit a long time listen to the long stori of some sailor who had just come from a plum - pud voyag , as they call it ( that is , a short whale - voyag in a schooner or brig , confin to the north of the line , in the atlant ocean onli ) ; after listen to these plum - pudding till nearli eleven o ' clock , I went up stair to go to bed , feel quit sure by thi time queequeg must certainli have brought hi ramadan to a termin . but no ; there he wa just where I had left him ; he had not stir an inch . I began to grow vex with him ; it seem so downright senseless and insan to be sit there all day and half the night on hi ham in a cold room , hold a piec of wood on hi head . `` for heaven ' s sake , queequeg , get up and shake yourself ; get up and have some supper . you ' ll starv ; you ' ll kill yourself , queequeg . '' but not a word did he repli . despair of him , therefor , I determin to go to bed and to sleep ; and no doubt , befor a great while , he would follow me . but previou to turn in , I took my heavi bearskin jacket , and threw it over him , as it promis to be a veri cold night ; and he had noth but hi ordinari round jacket on . for some time , do all I would , I could not get into the faintest doze . I had blown out the candl ; and the mere thought of queequeg -- not four feet off -- sit there in that uneasi posit , stark alon in the cold and dark ; thi made me realli wretch . think of it ; sleep all night in the same room with a wide awak pagan on hi ham in thi dreari , unaccount ramadan ! but somehow I drop off at last , and knew noth more till break of day ; when , look over the bedsid , there squat queequeg , as if he had been screw down to the floor . but as soon as the first glimps of sun enter the window , up he got , with stiff and grate joint , but with a cheer look ; limp toward me where I lay ; press hi forehead again against mine ; and said hi ramadan wa over . now , as I befor hint , I have no object to ani person ' s religion , be it what it may , so long as that person doe not kill or insult ani other person , becaus that other person don ' t believ it also . but when a man ' s religion becom realli frantic ; when it is a posit torment to him ; and , in fine , make thi earth of our an uncomfort inn to lodg in ; then I think it high time to take that individu asid and argu the point with him . and just so I now did with queequeg . `` queequeg , '' said I , `` get into bed now , and lie and listen to me . '' I then went on , begin with the rise and progress of the primit religion , and come down to the variou religion of the present time , dure which time I labor to show queequeg that all these lent , ramadan , and prolong ham - squat in cold , cheerless room were stark nonsens ; bad for the health ; useless for the soul ; oppos , in short , to the obviou law of hygien and common sens . I told him , too , that he be in other thing such an extrem sensibl and sagaci savag , it pain me , veri badli pain me , to see him now so deplor foolish about thi ridicul ramadan of hi . besid , argu I , fast make the bodi cave in ; henc the spirit cave in ; and all thought born of a fast must necessarili be half - starv . thi is the reason whi most dyspept religionist cherish such melancholi notion about their hereaft . In one word , queequeg , said I , rather digress ; hell is an idea first born on an undigest appl - dumpl ; and sinc then perpetu through the hereditari dyspepsia nurtur by ramadan . I then ask queequeg whether he himself wa ever troubl with dyspepsia ; express the idea veri plainli , so that he could take it in . He said no ; onli upon one memor occas . It wa after a great feast given by hi father the king , on the gain of a great battl wherein fifti of the enemi had been kill by about two o ' clock in the afternoon , and all cook and eaten that veri even . `` No more , queequeg , '' said I , shudder ; `` that will do ; '' for I knew the infer without hi further hint them . I had seen a sailor who had visit that veri island , and he told me that it wa the custom , when a great battl had been gain there , to barbecu all the slain in the yard or garden of the victor ; and then , one by one , they were place in great wooden trencher , and garnish round like a pilau , with breadfruit and cocoanut ; and with some parsley in their mouth , were sent round with the victor ' s compliment to all hi friend , just as though these present were so mani christma turkey . after all , I do not think that my remark about religion made much impress upon queequeg . becaus , in the first place , he somehow seem dull of hear on that import subject , unless consid from hi own point of view ; and , in the second place , he did not more than one third understand me , couch my idea simpli as I would ; and , final , he no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about the true religion than I did . He look at me with a sort of condescend concern and compass , as though he thought it a great piti that such a sensibl young man should be so hopelessli lost to evangel pagan pieti . At last we rose and dress ; and queequeg , take a prodigi hearti breakfast of chowder of all sort , so that the landladi should not make much profit by reason of hi ramadan , we salli out to board the pequod , saunter along , and pick our teeth with halibut bone . chapter 18 hi mark . As we were walk down the end of the wharf toward the ship , queequeg carri hi harpoon , captain peleg in hi gruff voic loudli hail us from hi wigwam , say he had not suspect my friend wa a cannib , and furthermor announc that he let no cannib on board that craft , unless they previous produc their paper . `` what do you mean by that , captain peleg ? '' said I , now jump on the bulwark , and leav my comrad stand on the wharf . `` I mean , '' he repli , `` he must show hi paper . '' `` ye , '' said captain bildad in hi hollow voic , stick hi head from behind peleg ' s , out of the wigwam . `` He must show that he ' s convert . son of dark , '' he ad , turn to queequeg , `` art thou at present in communion with ani christian church ? '' `` whi , '' said I , `` he ' s a member of the first congreg church . '' here be it said , that mani tattoo savag sail in nantucket ship at last come to be convert into the church . `` first congreg church , '' cri bildad , `` what ! that worship in deacon deuteronomi coleman ' s meet - hous ? '' and so say , take out hi spectacl , he rub them with hi great yellow bandana handkerchief , and put them on veri care , came out of the wigwam , and lean stiffli over the bulwark , took a good long look at queequeg . `` how long hath he been a member ? '' he then said , turn to me ; `` not veri long , I rather guess , young man . '' `` No , '' said peleg , `` and he hasn ' t been baptiz right either , or it would have wash some of that devil ' s blue off hi face . '' `` Do tell , now , '' cri bildad , `` is thi philistin a regular member of deacon deuteronomi ' s meet ? I never saw him go there , and I pass it everi lord ' s day . '' `` I don ' t know anyth about deacon deuteronomi or hi meet , '' said I ; `` all I know is , that queequeg here is a born member of the first congreg church . He is a deacon himself , queequeg is . '' `` young man , '' said bildad sternli , `` thou art skylark with me -- explain thyself , thou young hittit . what church dost thee mean ? answer me . '' find myself thu hard push , I repli . `` I mean , sir , the same ancient cathol church to which you and I , and captain peleg there , and queequeg here , and all of us , and everi mother ' s son and soul of us belong ; the great and everlast first congreg of thi whole worship world ; we all belong to that ; onli some of us cherish some queer crotchet no way touch the grand belief ; in that we all join hand . '' `` splice , thou mean ' st splice hand , '' cri peleg , draw nearer . `` young man , you ' d better ship for a missionari , instead of a fore - mast hand ; I never heard a better sermon . deacon deuteronomi -- whi father mappl himself couldn ' t beat it , and he ' s reckon someth . come aboard , come aboard ; never mind about the paper . I say , tell quohog there -- what ' s that you call him ? tell quohog to step along . By the great anchor , what a harpoon he ' s got there ! look like good stuff that ; and he handl it about right . I say , quohog , or whatev your name is , did you ever stand in the head of a whale - boat ? did you ever strike a fish ? '' without say a word , queequeg , in hi wild sort of way , jump upon the bulwark , from thenc into the bow of one of the whale - boat hang to the side ; and then brace hi left knee , and pois hi harpoon , cri out in some such way as thi : -- `` cap ' ain , you see him small drop tar on water dere ? you see him ? well , spose him one whale eye , well , den ! '' and take sharp aim at it , he dart the iron right over old bildad ' s broad brim , clean across the ship ' s deck , and struck the glisten tar spot out of sight . `` now , '' said queequeg , quietli haul in the line , `` spo - ee him whale - e eye ; whi , dad whale dead . '' `` quick , bildad , '' said peleg , hi partner , who , aghast at the close vicin of the fli harpoon , had retreat toward the cabin gangway . `` quick , I say , you bildad , and get the ship ' s paper . We must have hedgehog there , I mean quohog , in one of our boat . look ye , quohog , we ' ll give ye the ninetieth lay , and that ' s more than ever wa given a harpoon yet out of nantucket . '' So down we went into the cabin , and to my great joy queequeg wa soon enrol among the same ship ' s compani to which I myself belong . when all preliminari were over and peleg had got everyth readi for sign , he turn to me and said , `` I guess , quohog there don ' t know how to write , doe he ? I say , quohog , blast ye ! dost thou sign thi name or make thi mark ? but at thi question , queequeg , who had twice or thrice befor taken part in similar ceremoni , look no way abash ; but take the offer pen , copi upon the paper , in the proper place , an exact counterpart of a queer round figur which wa tattoo upon hi arm ; so that through captain peleg ' s obstin mistak touch hi appel , it stood someth like thi : -- quohog . hi X mark . meanwhil captain bildad sat earnestli and steadfastli eye queequeg , and at last rise solemnli and fumbl in the huge pocket of hi broad - skirt drab coat , took out a bundl of tract , and select one entitl `` the latter day come ; or No time to lose , '' place it in queequeg ' s hand , and then grasp them and the book with both hi , look earnestli into hi eye , and said , `` son of dark , I must do my duti by thee ; I am part owner of thi ship , and feel concern for the soul of all it crew ; if thou still clingest to thi pagan way , which I sadli fear , I beseech thee , remain not for aye a belial bondsman . spurn the idol bell , and the hideou dragon ; turn from the wrath to come ; mind thine eye , I say ; oh ! good graciou ! steer clear of the fieri pit ! '' someth of the salt sea yet linger in old bildad ' s languag , heterogen mix with scriptur and domest phrase . `` avast there , avast there , bildad , avast now spoil our harpoon , '' peleg . `` piou harpoon never make good voyag -- it take the shark out of ' em ; no harpoon is worth a straw who aint pretti sharkish . there wa young nat swain , onc the bravest boat - header out of all nantucket and the vineyard ; he join the meet , and never came to good . He got so frighten about hi plaguy soul , that he shrink and sheer away from whale , for fear of after - clap , in case he got stove and went to davi jone . '' `` peleg ! peleg ! '' said bildad , lift hi eye and hand , `` thou thyself , as I myself , hast seen mani a peril time ; thou knowest , peleg , what it is to have the fear of death ; how , then , can ' st thou prate in thi ungodli guis . thou beliest thine own heart , peleg . tell me , when thi same pequod here had her three mast overboard in that typhoon on japan , that same voyag when thou went mate with captain ahab , did ' st thou not think of death and the judgment then ? '' `` hear him , hear him now , '' cri peleg , march across the cabin , and thrust hi hand far down into hi pocket , -- '' hear him , all of ye . think of that ! when everi moment we thought the ship would sink ! death and the judgment then ? what ? with all three mast make such an everlast thunder against the side ; and everi sea break over us , fore and aft . think of death and the judgment then ? No ! no time to think about death then . life wa what captain ahab and I wa think of ; and how to save all hand -- how to rig juri - mast -- how to get into the nearest port ; that wa what I wa think of . '' bildad said no more , but button up hi coat , stalk on deck , where we follow him . there he stood , veri quietli overlook some sailmak who were mend a top - sail in the waist . now and then he stoop to pick up a patch , or save an end of tar twine , which otherwis might have been wast . chapter 19 the prophet . `` shipmat , have ye ship in that ship ? '' queequeg and I had just left the pequod , and were saunter away from the water , for the moment each occupi with hi own thought , when the abov word were put to us by a stranger , who , paus befor us , level hi massiv forefing at the vessel in question . He wa but shabbili apparel in fade jacket and patch trowser ; a rag of a black handkerchief invest hi neck . A confluent small - pox had in all direct flow over hi face , and left it like the complic rib bed of a torrent , when the rush water have been dri up . `` have ye ship in her ? '' he repeat . `` you mean the ship pequod , I suppos , '' said I , tri to gain a littl more time for an uninterrupt look at him . `` aye , the pequod -- that ship there , '' he said , draw back hi whole arm , and then rapidli shove it straight out from him , with the fix bayonet of hi point finger dart full at the object . `` ye , '' said I , `` we have just sign the articl . '' `` anyth down there about your soul ? '' `` about what ? '' `` Oh , perhap you hav ' n ' t got ani , '' he said quickli . `` No matter though , I know mani chap that hav ' n ' t got ani , -- good luck to ' em ; and they are all the better off for it . A soul ' s a sort of a fifth wheel to a wagon . '' `` what are you jabber about , shipmat ? '' said I . `` HE ' S got enough , though , to make up for all defici of that sort in other chap , '' abruptli said the stranger , place a nervou emphasi upon the word HE . `` queequeg , '' said I , `` let ' s go ; thi fellow ha broken loos from somewher ; he ' s talk about someth and somebodi we don ' t know . '' `` stop ! '' cri the stranger . `` Ye said true -- ye hav ' n ' t seen old thunder yet , have ye ? '' `` who ' s old thunder ? '' said I , again rivet with the insan earnest of hi manner . `` captain ahab . '' `` what ! the captain of our ship , the pequod ? '' `` aye , among some of us old sailor chap , he goe by that name . Ye hav ' n ' t seen him yet , have ye ? '' `` No , we hav ' n ' t . He ' s sick they say , but is get better , and will be all right again befor long . '' `` all right again befor long ! '' laugh the stranger , with a solemnli deris sort of laugh . `` look ye ; when captain ahab is all right , then thi left arm of mine will be all right ; not befor . '' `` what do you know about him ? '' `` what did they tell you about him ? say that ! '' `` they didn ' t tell much of anyth about him ; onli I ' ve heard that he ' s a good whale - hunter , and a good captain to hi crew . '' `` that ' s true , that ' s true -- ye , both true enough . but you must jump when he give an order . step and growl ; growl and go -- that ' s the word with captain ahab . but noth about that thing that happen to him off cape horn , long ago , when he lay like dead for three day and night ; noth about that deadli skrimmag with the spaniard afor the altar in santa ? -- heard noth about that , eh ? noth about the silver calabash he spat into ? and noth about hi lose hi leg last voyag , accord to the propheci . didn ' t ye hear a word about them matter and someth more , eh ? No , I don ' t think ye did ; how could ye ? who know it ? not all nantucket , I guess . but how ' ever , mayhap , ye ' ve heard tell about the leg , and how he lost it ; aye , ye have heard of that , I dare say . Oh ye , that everi one know a ' most -- I mean they know he ' s onli one leg ; and that a parmacetti took the other off . '' `` My friend , '' said I , `` what all thi gibberish of your is about , I don ' t know , and I don ' t much care ; for it seem to me that you must be a littl damag in the head . but if you are speak of captain ahab , of that ship there , the pequod , then let me tell you , that I know all about the loss of hi leg . '' `` all about it , eh -- sure you do ? -- all ? '' `` pretti sure . '' with finger point and eye level at the pequod , the beggar - like stranger stood a moment , as if in a troubl reveri ; then start a littl , turn and said : -- '' Ye ' ve ship , have ye ? name down on the paper ? well , well , what ' s sign , is sign ; and what ' s to be , will be ; and then again , perhap it won ' t be , after all . anyhow , it ' s all fix and arrang a ' readi ; and some sailor or other must go with him , I suppos ; as well these as ani other men , god piti ' em ! morn to ye , shipmat , morn ; the ineff heaven bless ye ; I ' m sorri I stop ye . '' `` look here , friend , '' said I , `` if you have anyth import to tell us , out with it ; but if you are onli tri to bamboozl us , you are mistaken in your game ; that ' s all I have to say . '' `` and it ' s said veri well , and I like to hear a chap talk up that way ; you are just the man for him -- the like of ye . morn to ye , shipmat , morn ! Oh ! when ye get there , tell ' em I ' ve conclud not to make one of ' em . '' `` Ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way -- you can ' t fool us . It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him . '' `` morn to ye , shipmat , morn . '' `` morn it is , '' said I . `` come along , queequeg , let ' s leav thi crazi man . but stop , tell me your name , will you ? '' `` elijah . '' elijah ! thought I , and we walk away , both comment , after each other ' s fashion , upon thi rag old sailor ; and agre that he wa noth but a humbug , tri to be a bugbear . but we had not gone perhap abov a hundr yard , when chanc to turn a corner , and look back as I did so , who should be seen but elijah follow us , though at a distanc . somehow , the sight of him struck me so , that I said noth to queequeg of hi be behind , but pass on with my comrad , anxiou to see whether the stranger would turn the same corner that we did . He did ; and then it seem to me that he wa dog us , but with what intent I could not for the life of me imagin . thi circumst , coupl with hi ambigu , half - hint , half - reveal , shroud sort of talk , now begat in me all kind of vagu wonder and half - apprehens , and all connect with the pequod ; and captain ahab ; and the leg he had lost ; and the cape horn fit ; and the silver calabash ; and what captain peleg had said of him , when I left the ship the day previou ; and the predict of the squaw tistig ; and the voyag we had bound ourselv to sail ; and a hundr other shadowi thing . I wa resolv to satisfi myself whether thi rag elijah wa realli dog us or not , and with that intent cross the way with queequeg , and on that side of it retrac our step . but elijah pass on , without seem to notic us . thi reliev me ; and onc more , and final as it seem to me , I pronounc him in my heart , a humbug . chapter 20 all astir . A day or two pass , and there wa great activ aboard the pequod . not onli were the old sail be mend , but new sail were come on board , and bolt of canva , and coil of rig ; in short , everyth betoken that the ship ' s prepar were hurri to a close . captain peleg seldom or never went ashor , but sat in hi wigwam keep a sharp look - out upon the hand : bildad did all the purchas and provid at the store ; and the men employ in the hold and on the rig were work till long after night - fall . On the day follow queequeg ' s sign the articl , word wa given at all the inn where the ship ' s compani were stop , that their chest must be on board befor night , for there wa no tell how soon the vessel might be sail . So queequeg and I got down our trap , resolv , howev , to sleep ashor till the last . but it seem they alway give veri long notic in these case , and the ship did not sail for sever day . but no wonder ; there wa a good deal to be done , and there is no tell how mani thing to be thought of , befor the pequod wa fulli equip . everi one know what a multitud of thing -- bed , sauc - pan , knive and fork , shovel and tong , napkin , nut - cracker , and what not , are indispens to the busi of housekeep . just so with whale , which necessit a three - year ' housekeep upon the wide ocean , far from all grocer , costermong , doctor , baker , and banker . and though thi also hold true of merchant vessel , yet not by ani mean to the same extent as with whalemen . for besid the great length of the whale voyag , the numer articl peculiar to the prosecut of the fisheri , and the imposs of replac them at the remot harbor usual frequent , it must be rememb , that of all ship , whale vessel are the most expos to accid of all kind , and especi to the destruct and loss of the veri thing upon which the success of the voyag most depend . henc , the spare boat , spare spar , and spare line and harpoon , and spare everyth , almost , but a spare captain and duplic ship . At the period of our arriv at the island , the heaviest storag of the pequod had been almost complet ; compris her beef , bread , water , fuel , and iron hoop and stave . but , as befor hint , for some time there wa a continu fetch and carri on board of diver odd and end of thing , both larg and small . chief among those who did thi fetch and carri wa captain bildad ' s sister , a lean old ladi of a most determin and indefatig spirit , but withal veri kindheart , who seem resolv that , if she could help it , noth should be found want in the pequod , after onc fairli get to sea . At one time she would come on board with a jar of pickl for the steward ' s pantri ; anoth time with a bunch of quill for the chief mate ' s desk , where he kept hi log ; a third time with a roll of flannel for the small of some one ' s rheumat back . never did ani woman better deserv her name , which wa chariti -- aunt chariti , as everybodi call her . and like a sister of chariti did thi charit aunt chariti bustl about hither and thither , readi to turn her hand and heart to anyth that promis to yield safeti , comfort , and consol to all on board a ship in which her belov brother bildad wa concern , and in which she herself own a score or two of well - save dollar . but it wa startl to see thi excel heart quakeress come on board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - ladl in one hand , and a still longer whale lanc in the other . nor wa bildad himself nor captain peleg at all backward . As for bildad , he carri about with him a long list of the articl need , and at everi fresh arriv , down went hi mark opposit that articl upon the paper . everi onc in a while peleg came hobbl out of hi whalebon den , roar at the men down the hatchway , roar up to the rigger at the mast - head , and then conclud by roar back into hi wigwam . dure these day of prepar , queequeg and I often visit the craft , and as often I ask about captain ahab , and how he wa , and when he wa go to come on board hi ship . To these question they would answer , that he wa get better and better , and wa expect aboard everi day ; meantim , the two captain , peleg and bildad , could attend to everyth necessari to fit the vessel for the voyag . If I had been downright honest with myself , I would have seen veri plainli in my heart that I did but half fanci be commit thi way to so long a voyag , without onc lay my eye on the man who wa to be the absolut dictat of it , so soon as the ship sail out upon the open sea . but when a man suspect ani wrong , it sometim happen that if he be alreadi involv in the matter , he insens strive to cover up hi suspicion even from himself . and much thi way it wa with me . I said noth , and tri to think noth . At last it wa given out that some time next day the ship would certainli sail . So next morn , queequeg and I took a veri earli start . chapter 21 go aboard . It wa nearli six o ' clock , but onli grey imperfect misti dawn , when we drew nigh the wharf . `` there are some sailor run ahead there , if I see right , '' said I to queequeg , `` it can ' t be shadow ; she ' s off by sunris , I guess ; come on ! '' `` avast ! '' cri a voic , whose owner at the same time come close behind us , laid a hand upon both our shoulder , and then insinu himself between us , stood stoop forward a littl , in the uncertain twilight , strang peer from queequeg to me . It wa elijah . `` go aboard ? '' `` hand off , will you , '' said I . `` looke here , '' said queequeg , shake himself , `` go ' way ! '' `` ain ' t go aboard , then ? '' `` ye , we are , '' said I , `` but what busi is that of your ? Do you know , Mr . elijah , that I consid you a littl impertin ? '' `` No , no , no ; I wasn ' t awar of that , '' said elijah , slowli and wonderingli look from me to queequeg , with the most unaccount glanc . `` elijah , '' said I , `` you will oblig my friend and me by withdraw . We are go to the indian and pacif ocean , and would prefer not to be detain . '' `` Ye be , be ye ? come back afor breakfast ? '' `` He ' s crack , queequeg , '' said I , `` come on . '' `` holloa ! '' cri stationari elijah , hail us when we had remov a few pace . `` never mind him , '' said I , `` queequeg , come on . '' but he stole up to us again , and suddenli clap hi hand on my shoulder , said -- '' did ye see anyth look like men go toward that ship a while ago ? '' struck by thi plain matter - of - fact question , I answer , say , `` ye , I thought I did see four or five men ; but it wa too dim to be sure . '' `` veri dim , veri dim , '' said elijah . `` morn to ye . '' onc more we quit him ; but onc more he came softli after us ; and touch my shoulder again , said , `` see if you can find ' em now , will ye ? `` find who ? '' `` morn to ye ! morn to ye ! '' he rejoin , again move off . `` Oh ! I wa go to warn ye against -- but never mind , never mind -- it ' s all one , all in the famili too ; -- sharp frost thi morn , ain ' t it ? good - bye to ye . shan ' t see ye again veri soon , I guess ; unless it ' s befor the grand juri . '' and with these crack word he final depart , leav me , for the moment , in no small wonder at hi frantic impud . At last , step on board the pequod , we found everyth in profound quiet , not a soul move . the cabin entranc wa lock within ; the hatch were all on , and lumber with coil of rig . go forward to the forecastl , we found the slide of the scuttl open . see a light , we went down , and found onli an old rigger there , wrap in a tatter pea - jacket . He wa thrown at whole length upon two chest , hi face downward and inclos in hi fold arm . the profoundest slumber slept upon him . `` those sailor we saw , queequeg , where can they have gone to ? '' said I , look dubious at the sleeper . but it seem that , when on the wharf , queequeg had not at all notic what I now allud to ; henc I would have thought myself to have been optic deceiv in that matter , were it not for elijah ' s otherwis inexplic question . but I beat the thing down ; and again mark the sleeper , jocularli hint to queequeg that perhap we had best sit up with the bodi ; tell him to establish himself accordingli . He put hi hand upon the sleeper ' s rear , as though feel if it wa soft enough ; and then , without more ado , sat quietli down there . `` graciou ! queequeg , don ' t sit there , '' said I . `` Oh ! perri dood seat , '' said queequeg , `` my countri way ; won ' t hurt him face . '' `` face ! '' said I , `` call that hi face ? veri benevol counten then ; but how hard he breath , he ' s heav himself ; get off , queequeg , you are heavi , it ' s grind the face of the poor . get off , queequeg ! look , he ' ll twitch you off soon . I wonder he don ' t wake . '' queequeg remov himself to just beyond the head of the sleeper , and light hi tomahawk pipe . I sat at the feet . We kept the pipe pass over the sleeper , from one to the other . meanwhil , upon question him in hi broken fashion , queequeg gave me to understand that , in hi land , owe to the absenc of sette and sofa of all sort , the king , chief , and great peopl gener , were in the custom of fatten some of the lower order for ottoman ; and to furnish a hous comfort in that respect , you had onli to buy up eight or ten lazi fellow , and lay them round in the pier and alcov . besid , it wa veri conveni on an excurs ; much better than those garden - chair which are convert into walk - stick ; upon occas , a chief call hi attend , and desir him to make a sette of himself under a spread tree , perhap in some damp marshi place . while narrat these thing , everi time queequeg receiv the tomahawk from me , he flourish the hatchet - side of it over the sleeper ' s head . `` what ' s that for , queequeg ? '' `` perri easi , kill - e ; oh ! perri easi ! He wa go on with some wild reminisc about hi tomahawk - pipe , which , it seem , had in it two use both brain hi foe and sooth hi soul , when we were directli attract to the sleep rigger . the strong vapour now complet fill the contract hole , it began to tell upon him . He breath with a sort of muffled ; then seem troubl in the nose ; then revolv over onc or twice ; then sat up and rub hi eye . `` holloa ! '' he breath at last , `` who be ye smoker ? '' `` ship men , '' answer I , `` when doe she sail ? '' `` aye , aye , ye are go in her , be ye ? she sail to - day . the captain came aboard last night . '' `` what captain ? -- ahab ? '' `` who but him inde ? '' I wa go to ask him some further question concern ahab , when we heard a nois on deck . `` holloa ! starbuck ' s astir , '' said the rigger . `` He ' s a live chief mate , that ; good man , and a piou ; but all aliv now , I must turn to . '' and so say he went on deck , and we follow . It wa now clear sunris . soon the crew came on board in two and three ; the rigger bestir themselv ; the mate were activ engag ; and sever of the shore peopl were busi in bring variou last thing on board . meanwhil captain ahab remain invis enshrin within hi cabin . chapter 22 merri christma . At length , toward noon , upon the final dismiss of the ship ' s rigger , and after the pequod had been haul out from the wharf , and after the ever - thought chariti had come off in a whale - boat , with her last gift -- a night - cap for stubb , the second mate , her brother - in - law , and a spare bibl for the steward -- after all thi , the two captain , peleg and bildad , issu from the cabin , and turn to the chief mate , peleg said : `` now , Mr . starbuck , are you sure everyth is right ? captain ahab is all readi -- just spoke to him -- noth more to be got from shore , eh ? well , call all hand , then . muster ' em aft here -- blast ' em ! '' `` No need of profan word , howev great the hurri , peleg , '' said bildad , `` but away with thee , friend starbuck , and do our bid . '' how now ! here upon the veri point of start for the voyag , captain peleg and captain bildad were go it with a high hand on the quarter - deck , just as if they were to be joint - command at sea , as well as to all appear in port . and , as for captain ahab , no sign of him wa yet to be seen ; onli , they said he wa in the cabin . but then , the idea wa , that hi presenc wa by no mean necessari in get the ship under weigh , and steer her well out to sea . inde , as that wa not at all hi proper busi , but the pilot ' s ; and as he wa not yet complet recov -- so they said -- therefor , captain ahab stay below . and all thi seem natur enough ; especi as in the merchant servic mani captain never show themselv on deck for a consider time after heav up the anchor , but remain over the cabin tabl , have a farewel merri - make with their shore friend , befor they quit the ship for good with the pilot . but there wa not much chanc to think over the matter , for captain peleg wa now all aliv . He seem to do most of the talk and command , and not bildad . `` aft here , ye son of bachelor , '' he cri , as the sailor linger at the main - mast . `` Mr . starbuck , drive ' em aft . '' `` strike the tent there ! '' -- wa the next order . As I hint befor , thi whalebon marque wa never pitch except in port ; and on board the pequod , for thirti year , the order to strike the tent wa well known to be the next thing to heav up the anchor . `` man the capstan ! blood and thunder ! -- jump ! '' -- wa the next command , and the crew sprang for the handspik . now in get under weigh , the station gener occupi by the pilot is the forward part of the ship . and here bildad , who , with peleg , be it known , in addit to hi other offic , wa one of the licens pilot of the port -- he be suspect to have got himself made a pilot in order to save the nantucket pilot - fee to all the ship he wa concern in , for he never pilot ani other craft -- bildad , I say , might now be seen activ engag in look over the bow for the approach anchor , and at interv sing what seem a dismal stave of psalmodi , to cheer the hand at the windlass , who roar forth some sort of a choru about the girl in boobl alley , with hearti good will . nevertheless , not three day previou , bildad had told them that no profan song would be allow on board the pequod , particularli in get under weigh ; and chariti , hi sister , had place a small choic copi of watt in each seaman ' s berth . meantim , overse the other part of the ship , captain peleg rip and swore astern in the most fright manner . I almost thought he would sink the ship befor the anchor could be got up ; involuntarili I paus on my handspik , and told queequeg to do the same , think of the peril we both ran , in start on the voyag with such a devil for a pilot . I wa comfort myself , howev , with the thought that in piou bildad might be found some salvat , spite of hi seven hundr and seventi - seventh lay ; when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear , and turn round , wa horrifi at the apparit of captain peleg in the act of withdraw hi leg from my immedi vicin . that wa my first kick . `` Is that the way they heav in the marchant servic ? '' he roar . `` spring , thou sheep - head ; spring , and break thi backbon ! whi don ' t ye spring , I say , all of ye -- spring ! quohog ! spring , thou chap with the red whisker ; spring there , scotch - cap ; spring , thou green pant . spring , I say , all of ye , and spring your eye out ! '' and so say , he move along the windlass , here and there use hi leg veri freeli , while imperturb bildad kept lead off with hi psalmodi . think I , captain peleg must have been drink someth to - day . At last the anchor wa up , the sail were set , and off we glide . It wa a short , cold christma ; and as the short northern day merg into night , we found ourselv almost broad upon the wintri ocean , whose freez spray case us in ice , as in polish armor . the long row of teeth on the bulwark glisten in the moonlight ; and like the white ivori tusk of some huge eleph , vast curv icicl depend from the bow . lank bildad , as pilot , head the first watch , and ever and anon , as the old craft deep dive into the green sea , and sent the shiver frost all over her , and the wind howl , and the cordag rang , hi steadi note were heard , -- `` sweet field beyond the swell flood , stand dress in live green . So to the jew old canaan stood , while jordan roll between . '' never did those sweet word sound more sweetli to me than then . they were full of hope and fruition . spite of thi frigid winter night in the boister atlant , spite of my wet feet and wetter jacket , there wa yet , it then seem to me , mani a pleasant haven in store ; and mead and glade so etern vernal , that the grass shot up by the spring , untrodden , unwilt , remain at midsumm . At last we gain such an of , that the two pilot were need no longer . the stout sail - boat that had accompani us began rang alongsid . It wa curiou and not unpleas , how peleg and bildad were affect at thi junctur , especi captain bildad . for loath to depart , yet ; veri loath to leav , for good , a ship bound on so long and peril a voyag -- beyond both stormi cape ; a ship in which some thousand of hi hard earn dollar were invest ; a ship , in which an old shipmat sail as captain ; a man almost as old as he , onc more start to encount all the terror of the pitiless jaw ; loath to say good - bye to a thing so everi way brim of everi interest to him , -- poor old bildad linger long ; pace the deck with anxiou stride ; ran down into the cabin to speak anoth farewel word there ; again came on deck , and look to windward ; look toward the wide and endless water , onli bound by the far - off unseen eastern contin ; look toward the land ; look aloft ; look right and left ; look everywher and nowher ; and at last , mechan coil a rope upon it pin , convuls grasp stout peleg by the hand , and hold up a lantern , for a moment stood gaze heroic in hi face , as much as to say , `` nevertheless , friend peleg , I can stand it ; ye , I can . '' As for peleg himself , he took it more like a philosoph ; but for all hi philosophi , there wa a tear twinkl in hi eye , when the lantern came too near . and he , too , did not a littl run from cabin to deck -- now a word below , and now a word with starbuck , the chief mate . but , at last , he turn to hi comrad , with a final sort of look about him , -- '' captain bildad -- come , old shipmat , we must go . back the main - yard there ! boat ahoy ! stand by to come close alongsid , now ! care , care ! -- come , bildad , boy -- say your last . luck to ye , starbuck -- luck to ye , Mr . stubb -- luck to ye , Mr . flask -- good - bye and good luck to ye all -- and thi day three year I ' ll have a hot supper smoke for ye in old nantucket . hurrah and away ! '' `` god bless ye , and have ye in hi holi keep , men , '' murmur old bildad , almost incoher . `` I hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so that captain ahab may soon be move among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he need , and ye ' ll have plenti of them in the tropic voyag ye go . Be care in the hunt , ye mate . don ' t stave the boat needlessli , ye harpoon ; good white cedar plank is rais full three per cent . within the year . don ' t forget your prayer , either . Mr . starbuck , mind that cooper don ' t wast the spare stave . Oh ! the sail - needl are in the green locker ! don ' t whale it too much a ' lord ' s day , men ; but don ' t miss a fair chanc either , that ' s reject heaven ' s good gift . have an eye to the molass tierc , Mr . stubb ; it wa a littl leaki , I thought . If ye touch at the island , Mr . flask , bewar of fornic . good - bye , good - bye ! don ' t keep that chees too long down in the hold , Mr . starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . Be care with the butter -- twenti cent the pound it wa , and mind ye , if -- '' `` come , come , captain bildad ; stop palav , -- away ! '' and with that , peleg hurri him over the side , and both dropt into the boat . ship and boat diverg ; the cold , damp night breez blew between ; a scream gull flew overhead ; the two hull wildli roll ; we gave three heavi - heart cheer , and blindli plung like fate into the lone atlant . chapter 23 the lee shore . some chapter back , one bulkington wa spoken of , a tall , newland marin , encount in new bedford at the inn . when on that shiver winter ' s night , the pequod thrust her vindict bow into the cold malici wave , who should I see stand at her helm but bulkington ! I look with sympathet awe and fear upon the man , who in mid - winter just land from a four year ' danger voyag , could so unrestingli push off again for still anoth tempestu term . the land seem scorch to hi feet . wonderfullest thing are ever the unmention ; deep memori yield no epitaph ; thi six - inch chapter is the stoneless grave of bulkington . let me onli say that it fare with him as with the storm - toss ship , that miser drive along the leeward land . the port would fain give succor ; the port is piti ; in the port is safeti , comfort , hearthston , supper , warm blanket , friend , all that ' s kind to our mortal . but in that gale , the port , the land , is that ship ' s direst jeopardi ; she must fli all hospit ; one touch of land , though it but graze the keel , would make her shudder through and through . with all her might she crowd all sail off shore ; in so do , fight ' gainst the veri wind that fain would blow her homeward ; seek all the lash sea ' s landless again ; for refug ' s sake forlornli rush into peril ; her onli friend her bitterest foe ! know ye now , bulkington ? glimps do ye seem to see of that mortal intoler truth ; that all deep , earnest think is but the intrepid effort of the soul to keep the open independ of her sea ; while the wildest wind of heaven and earth conspir to cast her on the treacher , slavish shore ? but as in landless alon resid highest truth , shoreless , indefinit as god -- so , better is it to perish in that howl infinit , than be inglori dash upon the lee , even if that were safeti ! for worm - like , then , oh ! who would craven crawl to land ! terror of the terribl ! is all thi agoni so vain ? take heart , take heart , O bulkington ! bear thee grimli , demigod ! Up from the spray of thi ocean - perish -- straight up , leap thi apotheosi ! chapter 24 the advoc . As queequeg and I are now fairli embark in thi busi of whale ; and as thi busi of whale ha somehow come to be regard among landsmen as a rather unpoet and disreput pursuit ; therefor , I am all anxieti to convinc ye , ye landsmen , of the injustic herebi done to us hunter of whale . In the first place , it may be deem almost superflu to establish the fact , that among peopl at larg , the busi of whale is not account on a level with what are call the liber profess . If a stranger were introduc into ani miscellan metropolitan societi , it would but slightli advanc the gener opinion of hi merit , were he present to the compani as a harpoon , say ; and if in emul of the naval offic he should append the initi S . W . F . ( sperm whale fisheri ) to hi visit card , such a procedur would be deem pre - emin presum and ridicul . doubtless one lead reason whi the world declin honour us whalemen , is thi : they think that , at best , our vocat amount to a butcher sort of busi ; and that when activ engag therein , we are surround by all manner of defil . butcher we are , that is true . but butcher , also , and butcher of the bloodiest badg have been all martial command whom the world invari delight to honour . and as for the matter of the alleg uncleanli of our busi , ye shall soon be initi into certain fact hitherto pretti gener unknown , and which , upon the whole , will triumphantli plant the sperm whale - ship at least among the cleanliest thing of thi tidi earth . but even grant the charg in question to be true ; what disord slipperi deck of a whale - ship are compar to the unspeak carrion of those battl - field from which so mani soldier return to drink in all ladi ' plaudit ? and if the idea of peril so much enhanc the popular conceit of the soldier ' s profess ; let me assur ye that mani a veteran who ha freeli march up to a batteri , would quickli recoil at the apparit of the sperm whale ' s vast tail , fan into eddi the air over hi head . for what are the comprehens terror of man compar with the interlink terror and wonder of god ! but , though the world scout at us whale hunter , yet doe it unwittingli pay us the profoundest homag ; yea , an all - abound ador ! for almost all the taper , lamp , and candl that burn round the globe , burn , as befor so mani shrine , to our glori ! but look at thi matter in other light ; weigh it in all sort of scale ; see what we whalemen are , and have been . whi did the dutch in De witt ' s time have admir of their whale fleet ? whi did loui xvi . of franc , at hi own person expens , fit out whale ship from dunkirk , and polit invit to that town some score or two of famili from our own island of nantucket ? whi did britain between the year 1750 and 1788 pay to her whalemen in bounti upward of L1 , 000 , 000 ? and lastli , how come it that we whalemen of america now outnumb all the rest of the band whalemen in the world ; sail a navi of upward of seven hundr vessel ; man by eighteen thousand men ; yearli consum 4 , 000 , 000 of dollar ; the ship worth , at the time of sail , $ 20 , 000 , 000 ! and everi year import into our harbor a well reap harvest of $ 7 , 000 , 000 . how come all thi , if there be not someth puissant in whale ? but thi is not the half ; look again . I freeli assert , that the cosmopolit philosoph can not , for hi life , point out one singl peac influenc , which within the last sixti year ha oper more potenti upon the whole broad world , taken in one aggreg , than the high and mighti busi of whale . one way and anoth , it ha begotten event so remark in themselv , and so continu moment in their sequenti issu , that whale may well be regard as that egyptian mother , who bore offspr themselv pregnant from her womb . It would be a hopeless , endless task to catalogu all these thing . let a hand suffic . for mani year past the whale - ship ha been the pioneer in ferret out the remotest and least known part of the earth . she ha explor sea and archipelago which had no chart , where no cook or vancouv had ever sail . If american and european men - of - war now peac ride in onc savag harbor , let them fire salut to the honour and glori of the whale - ship , which origin show them the way , and first interpret between them and the savag . they may celebr as they will the hero of explor expedit , your cook , your krusenstern ; but I say that score of anonym captain have sail out of nantucket , that were as great , and greater than your cook and your krusenstern . for in their succourless empti - handed , they , in the heathenish shark water , and by the beach of unrecord , javelin island , battl with virgin wonder and terror that cook with all hi marin and musket would not willingli have dare . all that is made such a flourish of in the old south sea voyag , those thing were but the life - time commonplac of our heroic nantucket . often , adventur which vancouv dedic three chapter to , these men account unworthi of be set down in the ship ' s common log . Ah , the world ! Oh , the world ! until the whale fisheri round cape horn , no commerc but coloni , scarc ani intercours but coloni , wa carri on between europ and the long line of the opul spanish provinc on the pacif coast . It wa the whaleman who first broke through the jealou polici of the spanish crown , touch those coloni ; and , if space permit , it might be distinctli shown how from those whalemen at last eventu the liber of peru , chili , and bolivia from the yoke of old spain , and the establish of the etern democraci in those part . that great america on the other side of the sphere , australia , wa given to the enlighten world by the whaleman . after it first blunder - born discoveri by a dutchman , all other ship long shun those shore as pestifer barbar ; but the whale - ship touch there . the whale - ship is the true mother of that now mighti coloni . moreov , in the infanc of the first australian settlement , the emigr were sever time save from starvat by the benevol biscuit of the whale - ship luckili drop an anchor in their water . the uncount isl of all polynesia confess the same truth , and do commerci homag to the whale - ship , that clear the way for the missionari and the merchant , and in mani case carri the primit missionari to their first destin . If that doubl - bolt land , japan , is ever to becom hospit , it is the whale - ship alon to whom the credit will be due ; for alreadi she is on the threshold . but if , in the face of all thi , you still declar that whale ha no aesthet nobl associ connect with it , then am I readi to shiver fifti lanc with you there , and unhors you with a split helmet everi time . the whale ha no famou author , and whale no famou chronicl , you will say . the whale NO famou author , and whale NO famou chronicl ? who wrote the first account of our leviathan ? who but mighti job ! and who compos the first narr of a whale - voyag ? who , but no less a princ than alfr the great , who , with hi own royal pen , took down the word from other , the norwegian whale - hunter of those time ! and who pronounc our glow eulog in parliament ? who , but edmund burk ! true enough , but then whalemen themselv are poor devil ; they have no good blood in their vein . NO good blood IN their vein ? they have someth better than royal blood there . the grandmoth of benjamin franklin wa mari morrel ; afterward , by marriag , mari folger , one of the old settler of nantucket , and the ancestress to a long line of folger and harpoon -- all kith and kin to nobl benjamin -- thi day dart the barb iron from one side of the world to the other . good again ; but then all confess that somehow whale is not respect . whale not respect ? whale is imperi ! By old english statutori law , the whale is declar `` a royal fish . `` * Oh , that ' s onli nomin ! the whale himself ha never figur in ani grand impos way . the whale never figur IN ani grand impos way ? In one of the mighti triumph given to a roman gener upon hi enter the world ' s capit , the bone of a whale , brought all the way from the syrian coast , were the most conspicu object in the cymbal process . * * see subsequ chapter for someth more on thi head . grant it , sinc you cite it ; but , say what you will , there is no real digniti in whale . NO digniti IN whale ? the digniti of our call the veri heaven attest . cetu is a constel in the south ! No more ! drive down your hat in presenc of the czar , and take it off to queequeg ! No more ! I know a man that , in hi lifetim , ha taken three hundr and fifti whale . I account that man more honour than that great captain of antiqu who boast of take as mani wall town . and , as for me , if , by ani possibl , there be ani as yet undiscov prime thing in me ; if I shall ever deserv ani real reput in that small but high hush world which I might not be unreason ambiti of ; if hereaft I shall do anyth that , upon the whole , a man might rather have done than to have left undon ; if , at my death , my executor , or more properli my creditor , find ani preciou mss . in my desk , then here I prospect ascrib all the honour and the glori to whale ; for a whale - ship wa my yale colleg and my harvard . chapter 25 postscript . In behalf of the digniti of whale , I would fain advanc naught but substanti fact . but after embattl hi fact , an advoc who should wholli suppress a not unreason surmis , which might tell eloqu upon hi caus -- such an advoc , would he not be blameworthi ? It is well known that at the coron of king and queen , even modern one , a certain curiou process of season them for their function is gone through . there is a saltcellar of state , so call , and there may be a castor of state . how they use the salt , precis -- who know ? certain I am , howev , that a king ' s head is solemnli oil at hi coron , even as a head of salad . can it be , though , that they anoint it with a view of make it interior run well , as they anoint machineri ? much might be rumin here , concern the essenti digniti of thi regal process , becaus in common life we esteem but meanli and contempt a fellow who anoint hi hair , and palpabl smell of that anoint . In truth , a matur man who use hair - oil , unless medicin , that man ha probabl got a quoggi spot in him somewher . As a gener rule , he can ' t amount to much in hi total . but the onli thing to be consid here , is thi -- what kind of oil is use at coron ? certainli it can not be oliv oil , nor macassar oil , nor castor oil , nor bear ' s oil , nor train oil , nor cod - liver oil . what then can it possibl be , but sperm oil in it unmanufactur , unpollut state , the sweetest of all oil ? think of that , ye loyal briton ! we whalemen suppli your king and queen with coron stuff ! chapter 26 knight and squir . the chief mate of the pequod wa starbuck , a nativ of nantucket , and a quaker by descent . He wa a long , earnest man , and though born on an ici coast , seem well adapt to endur hot latitud , hi flesh be hard as twice - bake biscuit . transport to the indi , hi live blood would not spoil like bottl ale . He must have been born in some time of gener drought and famin , or upon one of those fast day for which hi state is famou . onli some thirti arid summer had he seen ; those summer had dri up all hi physic superflu . but thi , hi thin , so to speak , seem no more the token of wast anxieti and care , than it seem the indic of ani bodili blight . It wa mere the condens of the man . He wa by no mean ill - look ; quit the contrari . hi pure tight skin wa an excel fit ; and close wrap up in it , and embalm with inner health and strength , like a revivifi egyptian , thi starbuck seem prepar to endur for long age to come , and to endur alway , as now ; for be it polar snow or torrid sun , like a patent chronomet , hi interior vital wa warrant to do well in all climat . look into hi eye , you seem to see there the yet linger imag of those thousand - fold peril he had calmli confront through life . A staid , steadfast man , whose life for the most part wa a tell pantomim of action , and not a tame chapter of sound . yet , for all hi hardi sobrieti and fortitud , there were certain qualiti in him which at time affect , and in some case seem well nigh to overbal all the rest . uncommonli conscienti for a seaman , and endu with a deep natur rever , the wild wateri loneli of hi life did therefor strongli inclin him to superstit ; but to that sort of superstit , which in some organ seem rather to spring , somehow , from intellig than from ignor . outward portent and inward presenti were hi . and if at time these thing bent the weld iron of hi soul , much more did hi far - away domest memori of hi young cape wife and child , tend to bend him still more from the origin rugged of hi natur , and open him still further to those latent influenc which , in some honest - heart men , restrain the gush of dare - devil dare , so often evinc by other in the more peril vicissitud of the fisheri . `` I will have no man in my boat , '' said starbuck , `` who is not afraid of a whale . '' By thi , he seem to mean , not onli that the most reliabl and use courag wa that which aris from the fair estim of the encount peril , but that an utterli fearless man is a far more danger comrad than a coward . `` aye , aye , '' said stubb , the second mate , `` starbuck , there , is as care a man as you ' ll find anywher in thi fisheri . '' but we shall ere long see what that word `` care `` precis mean when use by a man like stubb , or almost ani other whale hunter . starbuck wa no crusad after peril ; in him courag wa not a sentiment ; but a thing simpli use to him , and alway at hand upon all mortal practic occas . besid , he thought , perhap , that in thi busi of whale , courag wa one of the great stapl outfit of the ship , like her beef and her bread , and not to be foolishli wast . wherefor he had no fanci for lower for whale after sun - down ; nor for persist in fight a fish that too much persist in fight him . for , thought starbuck , I am here in thi critic ocean to kill whale for my live , and not to be kill by them for their ; and that hundr of men had been so kill starbuck well knew . what doom wa hi own father ' s ? where , in the bottomless deep , could he find the torn limb of hi brother ? with memori like these in him , and , moreov , given to a certain superstiti , as ha been said ; the courag of thi starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must inde have been extrem . but it wa not in reason natur that a man so organ , and with such terribl experi and remembr as he had ; it wa not in natur that these thing should fail in latent engend an element in him , which , under suitabl circumst , would break out from it confin , and burn all hi courag up . and brave as he might be , it wa that sort of braveri chiefli , visibl in some intrepid men , which , while gener abid firm in the conflict with sea , or wind , or whale , or ani of the ordinari irrat horror of the world , yet can not withstand those more terrif , becaus more spiritu terror , which sometim menac you from the concentr brow of an enrag and mighti man . but were the come narr to reveal in ani instanc , the complet abas of poor starbuck ' s fortitud , scarc might I have the heart to write it ; for it is a thing most sorrow , nay shock , to expos the fall of valour in the soul . men may seem detest as joint stock - compani and nation ; knave , fool , and murder there may be ; men may have mean and meagr face ; but man , in the ideal , is so nobl and so sparkl , such a grand and glow creatur , that over ani ignomini blemish in him all hi fellow should run to throw their costliest robe . that immacul manli we feel within ourselv , so far within us , that it remain intact though all the outer charact seem gone ; bleed with keenest anguish at the undrap spectacl of a valor - ruin man . nor can pieti itself , at such a shame sight , complet stifl her upbraid against the permit star . but thi august digniti I treat of , is not the digniti of king and robe , but that abound digniti which ha no robe investitur . thou shalt see it shine in the arm that wield a pick or drive a spike ; that democrat digniti which , on all hand , radiat without end from god ; himself ! the great god absolut ! the centr and circumfer of all democraci ! hi omnipres , our divin equal ! If , then , to meanest marin , and renegad and castaway , I shall hereaft ascrib high qualiti , though dark ; weav round them tragic grace ; if even the most mourn , perchanc the most abas , among them all , shall at time lift himself to the exalt mount ; if I shall touch that workman ' s arm with some ether light ; if I shall spread a rainbow over hi disastr set of sun ; then against all mortal critic bear me out in it , thou just spirit of equal , which hast spread one royal mantl of human over all my kind ! bear me out in it , thou great democrat god ! who didst not refus to the swart convict , bunyan , the pale , poetic pearl ; thou who didst cloth with doubli hammer leav of finest gold , the stump and pauper arm of old cervant ; thou who didst pick up andrew jackson from the pebbl ; who didst hurl him upon a war - hors ; who didst thunder him higher than a throne ! thou who , in all thi mighti , earthli march , ever cullest thi selectest champion from the kingli common ; bear me out in it , O god ! chapter 27 knight and squir . stubb wa the second mate . He wa a nativ of cape cod ; and henc , accord to local usag , wa call a cape - cod - man . A happi - go - lucki ; neither craven nor valiant ; take peril as they came with an indiffer air ; and while engag in the most immin crisi of the chase , toil away , calm and collect as a journeyman joiner engag for the year . good - humor , easi , and careless , he presid over hi whale - boat as if the most deadli encount were but a dinner , and hi crew all invit guest . He wa as particular about the comfort arrang of hi part of the boat , as an old stage - driver is about the snug of hi box . when close to the whale , in the veri death - lock of the fight , he handl hi unpiti lanc coolli and off - handedli , as a whistl tinker hi hammer . He would hum over hi old rigadig tune while flank and flank with the most exasper monster . long usag had , for thi stubb , convert the jaw of death into an easi chair . what he thought of death itself , there is no tell . whether he ever thought of it at all , might be a question ; but , if he ever did chanc to cast hi mind that way after a comfort dinner , no doubt , like a good sailor , he took it to be a sort of call of the watch to tumbl aloft , and bestir themselv there , about someth which he would find out when he obey the order , and not sooner . what , perhap , with other thing , made stubb such an easi - go , unfear man , so cheerili trudg off with the burden of life in a world full of grave pedlar , all bow to the ground with their pack ; what help to bring about that almost impiou good - humor of hi ; that thing must have been hi pipe . for , like hi nose , hi short , black littl pipe wa one of the regular featur of hi face . you would almost as soon have expect him to turn out of hi bunk without hi nose as without hi pipe . He kept a whole row of pipe there readi load , stuck in a rack , within easi reach of hi hand ; and , whenev he turn in , he smoke them all out in success , light one from the other to the end of the chapter ; then load them again to be in readi anew . for , when stubb dress , instead of first put hi leg into hi trowser , he put hi pipe into hi mouth . I say thi continu smoke must have been one caus , at least , of hi peculiar disposit ; for everi one know that thi earthli air , whether ashor or afloat , is terribl infect with the nameless miseri of the numberless mortal who have die exhal it ; and as in time of the cholera , some peopl go about with a camphor handkerchief to their mouth ; so , likewis , against all mortal tribul , stubb ' s tobacco smoke might have oper as a sort of disinfect agent . the third mate wa flask , a nativ of tisburi , in martha ' s vineyard . A short , stout , ruddi young fellow , veri pugnaci concern whale , who somehow seem to think that the great leviathan had person and hereditarili affront him ; and therefor it wa a sort of point of honour with him , to destroy them whenev encount . So utterli lost wa he to all sens of rever for the mani marvel of their majest bulk and mystic way ; and so dead to anyth like an apprehens of ani possibl danger from encount them ; that in hi poor opinion , the wondrou whale wa but a speci of magnifi mous , or at least water - rat , requir onli a littl circumvent and some small applic of time and troubl in order to kill and boil . thi ignor , unconsci fearless of hi made him a littl waggish in the matter of whale ; he follow these fish for the fun of it ; and a three year ' voyag round cape horn wa onli a jolli joke that last that length of time . As a carpent ' s nail are divid into wrought nail and cut nail ; so mankind may be similarli divid . littl flask wa one of the wrought one ; made to clinch tight and last long . they call him king - post on board of the pequod ; becaus , in form , he could be well liken to the short , squar timber known by that name in arctic whaler ; and which by the mean of mani radiat side timber insert into it , serv to brace the ship against the ici concuss of those batter sea . now these three mate -- starbuck , stubb , and flask , were moment men . they it wa who by univers prescript command three of the pequod ' s boat as headsmen . In that grand order of battl in which captain ahab would probabl marshal hi forc to descend on the whale , these three headsmen were as captain of compani . Or , be arm with their long keen whale spear , they were as a pick trio of lancer ; even as the harpoon were flinger of javelin . and sinc in thi famou fisheri , each mate or headsman , like a gothic knight of old , is alway accompani by hi boat - steerer or harpoon , who in certain conjunctur provid him with a fresh lanc , when the former one ha been badli twist , or elbow in the assault ; and moreov , as there gener subsist between the two , a close intimaci and friendli ; it is therefor but meet , that in thi place we set down who the pequod ' s harpoon were , and to what headsman each of them belong . first of all wa queequeg , whom starbuck , the chief mate , had select for hi squir . but queequeg is alreadi known . next wa tashtego , an unmix indian from gay head , the most westerli promontori of martha ' s vineyard , where there still exist the last remnant of a villag of red men , which ha long suppli the neighbor island of nantucket with mani of her most dare harpoon . In the fisheri , they usual go by the gener name of gay - header . tashtego ' s long , lean , sabl hair , hi high cheek bone , and black round eye -- for an indian , orient in their larg , but antarct in their glitter express -- all thi suffici proclaim him an inheritor of the unviti blood of those proud warrior hunter , who , in quest of the great new england moos , had scour , bow in hand , the aborigin forest of the main . but no longer snuf in the trail of the wild beast of the woodland , tashtego now hunt in the wake of the great whale of the sea ; the uner harpoon of the son fitli replac the infal arrow of the sire . To look at the tawni brawn of hi lith snaki limb , you would almost have credit the superstit of some of the earlier puritan , and half - believ thi wild indian to be a son of the princ of the power of the air . tashtego wa stubb the second mate ' s squir . third among the harpoon wa daggoo , a gigant , coal - black negro - savag , with a lion - like tread -- an ahasueru to behold . suspend from hi ear were two golden hoop , so larg that the sailor call them ring - bolt , and would talk of secur the top - sail halyard to them . In hi youth daggoo had voluntarili ship on board of a whaler , lie in a lone bay on hi nativ coast . and never have been anywher in the world but in africa , nantucket , and the pagan harbor most frequent by whalemen ; and have now led for mani year the bold life of the fisheri in the ship of owner uncommonli heed of what manner of men they ship ; daggoo retain all hi barbar virtu , and erect as a giraff , move about the deck in all the pomp of six feet five in hi sock . there wa a corpor humil in look up at him ; and a white man stand befor him seem a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . curiou to tell , thi imperi negro , ahasueru daggoo , wa the squir of littl flask , who look like a chess - man besid him . As for the residu of the pequod ' s compani , be it said , that at the present day not one in two of the mani thousand men befor the mast employ in the american whale fisheri , are american born , though pretti nearli all the offic are . herein it is the same with the american whale fisheri as with the american armi and militari and merchant navi , and the engin forc employ in the construct of the american canal and railroad . the same , I say , becaus in all these case the nativ american liber provid the brain , the rest of the world as gener suppli the muscl . No small number of these whale seamen belong to the azor , where the outward bound nantucket whaler frequent touch to augment their crew from the hardi peasant of those rocki shore . In like manner , the greenland whaler sail out of hull or london , put in at the shetland island , to receiv the full complement of their crew . upon the passag homeward , they drop them there again . how it is , there is no tell , but island seem to make the best whalemen . they were nearli all island in the pequod , isolato too , I call such , not acknowledg the common contin of men , but each isolato live on a separ contin of hi own . yet now , feder along one keel , what a set these isolato were ! An anacharsi clootz deput from all the isl of the sea , and all the end of the earth , accompani old ahab in the pequod to lay the world ' s grievanc befor that bar from which not veri mani of them ever come back . black littl pip -- he never did -- oh , no ! he went befor . poor alabama boy ! On the grim pequod ' s forecastl , ye shall ere long see him , beat hi tambourin ; prelus of the etern time , when sent for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he wa bid strike in with angel , and beat hi tambourin in glori ; call a coward here , hail a hero there ! chapter 28 ahab . for sever day after leav nantucket , noth abov hatch wa seen of captain ahab . the mate regularli reliev each other at the watch , and for aught that could be seen to the contrari , they seem to be the onli command of the ship ; onli they sometim issu from the cabin with order so sudden and peremptori , that after all it wa plain they but command vicari . ye , their suprem lord and dictat wa there , though hitherto unseen by ani eye not permit to penetr into the now sacr retreat of the cabin . everi time I ascend to the deck from my watch below , I instantli gaze aft to mark if ani strang face were visibl ; for my first vagu disquietud touch the unknown captain , now in the seclus of the sea , becam almost a perturb . thi wa strang heighten at time by the rag elijah ' s diabol incoher uninvitedli recur to me , with a subtl energi I could not have befor conceiv of . but poorli could I withstand them , much as in other mood I wa almost readi to smile at the solemn whimsic of that outlandish prophet of the wharv . but whatev it wa of apprehens or uneasi -- to call it so -- which I felt , yet whenev I came to look about me in the ship , it seem against all warrantri to cherish such emot . for though the harpoon , with the great bodi of the crew , were a far more barbar , heathenish , and motley set than ani of the tame merchant - ship compani which my previou experi had made me acquaint with , still I ascrib thi -- and rightli ascrib it -- to the fierc uniqu of the veri natur of that wild scandinavian vocat in which I had so abandonedli embark . but it wa especi the aspect of the three chief offic of the ship , the mate , which wa most forcibl calcul to allay these colourless misgiv , and induc confid and cheer in everi present of the voyag . three better , more like sea - offic and men , each in hi own differ way , could not readili be found , and they were everi one of them american ; a nantucket , a vineyard , a cape man . now , it be christma when the ship shot from out her harbor , for a space we had bite polar weather , though all the time run away from it to the southward ; and by everi degre and minut of latitud which we sail , gradual leav that merciless winter , and all it intoler weather behind us . It wa one of those less lower , but still grey and gloomi enough morn of the transit , when with a fair wind the ship wa rush through the water with a vindict sort of leap and melancholi rapid , that as I mount to the deck at the call of the forenoon watch , so soon as I level my glanc toward the taffrail , forebod shiver ran over me . realiti outran apprehens ; captain ahab stood upon hi quarter - deck . there seem no sign of common bodili ill about him , nor of the recoveri from ani . He look like a man cut away from the stake , when the fire ha overrunningli wast all the limb without consum them , or take away one particl from their compact age robust . hi whole high , broad form , seem made of solid bronz , and shape in an unalter mould , like cellini ' s cast perseu . thread it way out from among hi grey hair , and continu right down one side of hi tawni scorch face and neck , till it disappear in hi cloth , you saw a slender rod - like mark , lividli whitish . It resembl that perpendicular seam sometim made in the straight , lofti trunk of a great tree , when the upper lightn tearingli dart down it , and without wrench a singl twig , peel and groov out the bark from top to bottom , ere run off into the soil , leav the tree still greenli aliv , but brand . whether that mark wa born with him , or whether it wa the scar left by some desper wound , no one could certainli say . By some tacit consent , throughout the voyag littl or no allus wa made to it , especi by the mate . but onc tashtego ' s senior , an old gay - head indian among the crew , superstiti assert that not till he wa full forti year old did ahab becom that way brand , and then it came upon him , not in the furi of ani mortal fray , but in an element strife at sea . yet , thi wild hint seem inferenti negativ , by what a grey manxman insinu , an old sepulchr man , who , have never befor sail out of nantucket , had never ere thi laid eye upon wild ahab . nevertheless , the old sea - tradit , the immemori credul , popularli invest thi old manxman with preternatur power of discern . So that no white sailor serious contradict him when he said that if ever captain ahab should be tranquilli laid out -- which might hardli come to pass , so he mutter -- then , whoever should do that last offic for the dead , would find a birth - mark on him from crown to sole . So power did the whole grim aspect of ahab affect me , and the livid brand which streak it , that for the first few moment I hardli note that not a littl of thi overbear grim wa owe to the barbar white leg upon which he partli stood . It had previous come to me that thi ivori leg had at sea been fashion from the polish bone of the sperm whale ' s jaw . `` aye , he wa dismast off japan , '' said the old gay - head indian onc ; `` but like hi dismast craft , he ship anoth mast without come home for it . He ha a quiver of ' em . '' I wa struck with the singular postur he maintain . upon each side of the pequod ' s quarter deck , and pretti close to the mizzen shroud , there wa an auger hole , bore about half an inch or so , into the plank . hi bone leg steadi in that hole ; one arm elev , and hold by a shroud ; captain ahab stood erect , look straight out beyond the ship ' s ever - pitch prow . there wa an infin of firmest fortitud , a determin , unsurrender wil , in the fix and fearless , forward dedic of that glanc . not a word he spoke ; nor did hi offic say aught to him ; though by all their minutest gestur and express , they plainli show the uneasi , if not pain , conscious of be under a troubl master - eye . and not onli that , but moodi stricken ahab stood befor them with a crucifixion in hi face ; in all the nameless regal overbear digniti of some mighti woe . ere long , from hi first visit in the air , he withdrew into hi cabin . but after that morn , he wa everi day visibl to the crew ; either stand in hi pivot - hole , or seat upon an ivori stool he had ; or heavili walk the deck . As the sky grew less gloomi ; inde , began to grow a littl genial , he becam still less and less a reclus ; as if , when the ship had sail from home , noth but the dead wintri bleak of the sea had then kept him so seclud . and , by and by , it came to pass , that he wa almost continu in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he said , or percept did , on the at last sunni deck , he seem as unnecessari there as anoth mast . but the pequod wa onli make a passag now ; not regularli cruis ; nearli all whale prepar need supervis the mate were fulli compet to , so that there wa littl or noth , out of himself , to employ or excit ahab , now ; and thu chase away , for that one interv , the cloud that layer upon layer were pile upon hi brow , as ever all cloud choos the loftiest peak to pile themselv upon . nevertheless , ere long , the warm , warbl persuas of the pleasant , holiday weather we came to , seem gradual to charm him from hi mood . for , as when the red - cheek , danc girl , april and may , trip home to the wintri , misanthrop wood ; even the barest , ruggedest , most thunder - cloven old oak will at least send forth some few green sprout , to welcom such glad - heart visit ; so ahab did , in the end , a littl respond to the play allur of that girlish air . more than onc did he put forth the faint blossom of a look , which , in ani other man , would have soon flower out in a smile . chapter 29 enter ahab ; to him , stubb . some day elaps , and ice and iceberg all astern , the pequod now went roll through the bright quito spring , which , at sea , almost perpetu reign on the threshold of the etern august of the tropic . the warmli cool , clear , ring , perfum , overflow , redund day , were as crystal goblet of persian sherbet , heap up -- flake up , with rose - water snow . the star and state night seem haughti dame in jewel velvet , nurs at home in lone pride , the memori of their absent conquer earl , the golden helmet sun ! for sleep man , ' twa hard to choos between such winsom day and such seduc night . but all the witcheri of that unwan weather did not mere lend new spell and potenc to the outward world . inward they turn upon the soul , especi when the still mild hour of eve came on ; then , memori shot her crystal as the clear ice most form of noiseless twilight . and all these subtl agenc , more and more they wrought on ahab ' s textur . old age is alway wake ; as if , the longer link with life , the less man ha to do with aught that look like death . among sea - command , the old greybeard will oftenest leav their berth to visit the night - cloak deck . It wa so with ahab ; onli that now , of late , he seem so much to live in the open air , that truli speak , hi visit were more to the cabin , than from the cabin to the plank . `` It feel like go down into one ' s tomb , '' -- he would mutter to himself -- '' for an old captain like me to be descend thi narrow scuttl , to go to my grave - dug berth . '' So , almost everi twenti - four hour , when the watch of the night were set , and the band on deck sentinel the slumber of the band below ; and when if a rope wa to be haul upon the forecastl , the sailor flung it not rude down , as by day , but with some cautious dropt it to it place for fear of disturb their slumber shipmat ; when thi sort of steadi quietud would begin to prevail , habitu , the silent steersman would watch the cabin - scuttl ; and ere long the old man would emerg , grip at the iron banist , to help hi crippl way . some consid touch of human wa in him ; for at time like these , he usual abstain from patrol the quarter - deck ; becaus to hi weari mate , seek repos within six inch of hi ivori heel , such would have been the reverber crack and din of that boni step , that their dream would have been on the crunch teeth of shark . but onc , the mood wa on him too deep for common regard ; and as with heavi , lumber - like pace he wa measur the ship from taffrail to mainmast , stubb , the old second mate , came up from below , with a certain unassur , deprec humor , hint that if captain ahab wa pleas to walk the plank , then , no one could say nay ; but there might be some way of muffl the nois ; hint someth indistinctli and hesitatingli about a globe of tow , and the insert into it , of the ivori heel . Ah ! stubb , thou didst not know ahab then . `` Am I a cannon - ball , stubb , '' said ahab , `` that thou wouldst wad me that fashion ? but go thi way ; I had forgot . below to thi nightli grave ; where such as ye sleep between shroud , to use ye to the fill one at last . -- down , dog , and kennel ! '' start at the unforseen conclud exclam of the so suddenli scorn old man , stubb wa speechless a moment ; then said excitedli , `` I am not use to be spoken to that way , sir ; I do but less than half like it , sir . '' `` avast ! grit ahab between hi set teeth , and violent move away , as if to avoid some passion temptat . `` No , sir ; not yet , '' said stubb , embolden , `` I will not tame be call a dog , sir . '' `` then be call ten time a donkey , and a mule , and an ass , and begon , or I ' ll clear the world of thee ! '' As he said thi , ahab advanc upon him with such overbear terror in hi aspect , that stubb involuntarili retreat . `` I wa never serv so befor without give a hard blow for it , '' mutter stubb , as he found himself descend the cabin - scuttl . `` It ' s veri queer . stop , stubb ; somehow , now , I don ' t well know whether to go back and strike him , or -- what ' s that ? -- down here on my knee and pray for him ? ye , that wa the thought come up in me ; but it would be the first time I ever did pray . It ' s queer ; veri queer ; and he ' s queer too ; aye , take him fore and aft , he ' s about the queerest old man stubb ever sail with . how he flash at me ! -- hi eye like powder - pan ! is he mad ? anyway there ' s someth on hi mind , as sure as there must be someth on a deck when it crack . He aint in hi bed now , either , more than three hour out of the twenti - four ; and he don ' t sleep then . didn ' t that dough - boy , the steward , tell me that of a morn he alway find the old man ' s hammock cloth all rumpl and tumbl , and the sheet down at the foot , and the coverlid almost tie into knot , and the pillow a sort of fright hot , as though a bake brick had been on it ? A hot old man ! I guess he ' s got what some folk ashor call a conscienc ; it ' s a kind of tic - dolli - row they say -- wors nor a toothach . well , well ; I don ' t know what it is , but the lord keep me from catch it . He ' s full of riddl ; I wonder what he goe into the after hold for , everi night , as dough - boy tell me he suspect ; what ' s that for , I should like to know ? who ' s made appoint with him in the hold ? ain ' t that queer , now ? but there ' s no tell , it ' s the old game -- here goe for a snooz . damn me , it ' s worth a fellow ' s while to be born into the world , if onli to fall right asleep . and now that I think of it , that ' s about the first thing babi do , and that ' s a sort of queer , too . damn me , but all thing are queer , come to think of ' em . but that ' s against my principl . think not , is my eleventh command ; and sleep when you can , is my twelfth -- So here goe again . but how ' s that ? didn ' t he call me a dog ? blaze ! he call me ten time a donkey , and pile a lot of jackass on top of that ! He might as well have kick me , and done with it . mayb he did kick me , and I didn ' t observ it , I wa so taken all aback with hi brow , somehow . It flash like a bleach bone . what the devil ' s the matter with me ? I don ' t stand right on my leg . come afoul of that old man ha a sort of turn me wrong side out . By the lord , I must have been dream , though -- how ? how ? how ? -- but the onli way ' s to stash it ; so here goe to hammock again ; and in the morn , I ' ll see how thi plaguey juggl think over by daylight . '' chapter 30 the pipe . when stubb had depart , ahab stood for a while lean over the bulwark ; and then , as had been usual with him of late , call a sailor of the watch , he sent him below for hi ivori stool , and also hi pipe . light the pipe at the binnacl lamp and plant the stool on the weather side of the deck , he sat and smoke . In old nors time , the throne of the sea - love danish king were fabric , saith tradit , of the tusk of the narwhal . how could one look at ahab then , seat on that tripod of bone , without bethink him of the royalti it symbol ? for a khan of the plank , and a king of the sea , and a great lord of leviathan wa ahab . some moment pass , dure which the thick vapour came from hi mouth in quick and constant puff , which blew back again into hi face . `` how now , '' he soliloqu at last , withdraw the tube , `` thi smoke no longer sooth . Oh , my pipe ! hard must it go with me if thi charm be gone ! here have I been unconsci toil , not pleasur -- aye , and ignorantli smoke to windward all the while ; to windward , and with such nervou whiff , as if , like the die whale , my final jet were the strongest and fullest of troubl . what busi have I with thi pipe ? thi thing that is meant for seren , to send up mild white vapour among mild white hair , not among torn iron - grey lock like mine . I ' ll smoke no more -- '' He toss the still light pipe into the sea . the fire hiss in the wave ; the same instant the ship shot by the bubbl the sink pipe made . with slouch hat , ahab lurchingli pace the plank . chapter 31 queen mab . next morn stubb accost flask . `` such a queer dream , king - post , I never had . you know the old man ' s ivori leg , well I dream he kick me with it ; and when I tri to kick back , upon my soul , my littl man , I kick my leg right off ! and then , presto ! ahab seem a pyramid , and I , like a blaze fool , kept kick at it . but what wa still more curiou , flask -- you know how curiou all dream are -- through all thi rage that I wa in , I somehow seem to be think to myself , that after all , it wa not much of an insult , that kick from ahab . ' whi , ' think I , ' what ' s the row ? It ' s not a real leg , onli a fals leg . ' and there ' s a mighti differ between a live thump and a dead thump . that ' s what make a blow from the hand , flask , fifti time more savag to bear than a blow from a cane . the live member -- that make the live insult , my littl man . and think I to myself all the while , mind , while I wa stub my silli toe against that curs pyramid -- so confoundedli contradictori wa it all , all the while , I say , I wa think to myself , ' what ' s hi leg now , but a cane -- a whalebon cane . ye , ' think I , ' it wa onli a play cudgel -- in fact , onli a whalebon that he gave me -- not a base kick . besid , ' think I , ' look at it onc ; whi , the end of it -- the foot part -- what a small sort of end it is ; wherea , if a broad foot farmer kick me , there ' S a devilish broad insult . but thi insult is whittl down to a point onli . ' but now come the greatest joke of the dream , flask . while I wa batter away at the pyramid , a sort of badger - hair old merman , with a hump on hi back , take me by the shoulder , and slew me round . ' what are you ' bout ? ' say he . slid ! man , but I wa frighten . such a phiz ! but , somehow , next moment I wa over the fright . ' what am I about ? ' say I at last . ' and what busi is that of your , I should like to know , Mr . humpback ? Do you want a kick ? ' By the lord , flask , I had no sooner said that , than he turn round hi stern to me , bent over , and drag up a lot of seawe he had for a clout -- what do you think , I saw ? -- whi thunder aliv , man , hi stern wa stuck full of marlinspik , with the point out . say I , on second thought , ' I guess I won ' t kick you , old fellow . ' ' wise stubb , ' said he , ' wise stubb ; ' and kept mutter it all the time , a sort of eat of hi own gum like a chimney hag . see he wasn ' t go to stop say over hi ' wise stubb , wise stubb , ' I thought I might as well fall to kick the pyramid again . but I had onli just lift my foot for it , when he roar out , ' stop that kick ! ' ' halloa , ' say I , ' what ' s the matter now , old fellow ? ' ' look ye here , ' say he ; ' let ' s argu the insult . captain ahab kick ye , didn ' t he ? ' ' ye , he did , ' say I -- ' right here it wa . ' ' veri good , ' say he -- ' he use hi ivori leg , didn ' t he ? ' ' ye , he did , ' say I . ' well then , ' say he , ' wise stubb , what have you to complain of ? didn ' t he kick with right good will ? it wasn ' t a common pitch pine leg he kick with , wa it ? No , you were kick by a great man , and with a beauti ivori leg , stubb . It ' s an honour ; I consid it an honour . listen , wise stubb . In old england the greatest lord think it great glori to be slap by a queen , and made garter - knight of ; but , be your boast , stubb , that ye were kick by old ahab , and made a wise man of . rememb what I say ; BE kick by him ; account hi kick honour ; and on no account kick back ; for you can ' t help yourself , wise stubb . don ' t you see that pyramid ? ' with that , he all of a sudden seem somehow , in some queer fashion , to swim off into the air . I snore ; roll over ; and there I wa in my hammock ! now , what do you think of that dream , flask ? '' `` I don ' t know ; it seem a sort of foolish to me , tho . ' '' `` may be ; may be . but it ' s made a wise man of me , flask . D ' ye see ahab stand there , sideway look over the stern ? well , the best thing you can do , flask , is to let the old man alon ; never speak to him , whatev he say . halloa ! what ' s that he shout ? hark ! '' `` mast - head , there ! look sharp , all of ye ! there are whale hereabout ! If ye see a white one , split your lung for him ! `` what do you think of that now , flask ? ain ' t there a small drop of someth queer about that , eh ? A white whale -- did ye mark that , man ? look ye -- there ' s someth special in the wind . stand by for it , flask . ahab ha that that ' s bloodi on hi mind . but , mum ; he come thi way . '' chapter 32 cetolog . alreadi we are boldli launch upon the deep ; but soon we shall be lost in it unshor , harbourless immens . ere that come to pass ; ere the pequod ' s weedi hull roll side by side with the barnacl hull of the leviathan ; at the outset it is but well to attend to a matter almost indispens to a thorough appreci understand of the more special leviathan revel and allus of all sort which are to follow . It is some systemat exhibit of the whale in hi broad genera , that I would now fain put befor you . yet is it no easi task . the classif of the constitu of a chao , noth less is here essay . listen to what the best and latest author have laid down . `` No branch of zoolog is so much involv as that which is entitl cetolog , '' say captain scoresbi , A . D . 1820 . `` It is not my intent , were it in my power , to enter into the inquiri as to the true method of divid the cetacea into group and famili .... utter confus exist among the historian of thi anim `` ( sperm whale ) , say surgeon beal , A . D . 1839 . `` unfit to pursu our research in the unfathom water . '' `` impenetr veil cover our knowledg of the cetacea . '' `` A field strewn with thorn . '' `` all these incomplet indic but serv to tortur us naturalist . '' thu speak of the whale , the great cuvier , and john hunter , and lesson , those light of zoolog and anatomi . nevertheless , though of real knowledg there be littl , yet of book there are a plenti ; and so in some small degre , with cetolog , or the scienc of whale . mani are the men , small and great , old and new , landsmen and seamen , who have at larg or in littl , written of the whale . run over a few : -- the author of the bibl ; aristotl ; plini ; aldrovandi ; sir thoma brown ; gesner ; ray ; linnaeu ; rondeletiu ; willoughbi ; green ; artedi ; sibbald ; brisson ; marten ; laceped ; bonneterr ; desmarest ; baron cuvier ; frederick cuvier ; john hunter ; owen ; scoresbi ; beal ; bennett ; J . ross brown ; the author of miriam coffin ; olmstead ; and the rev . T . cheever . but to what ultim gener purpos all these have written , the abov cite extract will show . Of the name in thi list of whale author , onli those follow owen ever saw live whale ; and but one of them wa a real profession harpoon and whaleman . I mean captain scoresbi . On the separ subject of the greenland or right - whale , he is the best exist author . but scoresbi knew noth and say noth of the great sperm whale , compar with which the greenland whale is almost unworthi mention . and here be it said , that the greenland whale is an usurp upon the throne of the sea . He is not even by ani mean the largest of the whale . yet , owe to the long prioriti of hi claim , and the profound ignor which , till some seventi year back , invest the then fabul or utterli unknown sperm - whale , and which ignor to thi present day still reign in all but some few scientif retreat and whale - port ; thi usurp ha been everi way complet . refer to nearli all the leviathan allus in the great poet of past day , will satisfi you that the greenland whale , without one rival , wa to them the monarch of the sea . but the time ha at last come for a new proclam . thi is chare cross ; hear ye ! good peopl all , -- the greenland whale is depos , -- the great sperm whale now reigneth ! there are onli two book in be which at all pretend to put the live sperm whale befor you , and at the same time , in the remotest degre succeed in the attempt . those book are beal ' s and bennett ' s ; both in their time surgeon to english south - sea whale - ship , and both exact and reliabl men . the origin matter touch the sperm whale to be found in their volum is necessarili small ; but so far as it goe , it is of excel qualiti , though mostli confin to scientif descript . As yet , howev , the sperm whale , scientif or poetic , live not complet in ani literatur . far abov all other hunt whale , hi is an unwritten life . now the variou speci of whale need some sort of popular comprehens classif , if onli an easi outlin one for the present , hereaft to be fill in all it depart by subsequ labor . As no better man advanc to take thi matter in hand , I hereupon offer my own poor endeavor . I promis noth complet ; becaus ani human thing suppos to be complet , must for that veri reason infal be faulti . I shall not pretend to a minut anatom descript of the variou speci , or -- in thi place at least -- to much of ani descript . My object here is simpli to project the draught of a systemat of cetolog . I am the architect , not the builder . but it is a ponder task ; no ordinari letter - sorter in the post - offic is equal to it . To grope down into the bottom of the sea after them ; to have one ' s hand among the unspeak foundat , rib , and veri pelvi of the world ; thi is a fear thing . what am I that I should essay to hook the nose of thi leviathan ! the aw taunt in job might well appal me . `` will he the ( leviathan ) make a coven with thee ? behold the hope of him is vain ! but I have swam through librari and sail through ocean ; I have had to do with whale with these visibl hand ; I am in earnest ; and I will tri . there are some preliminari to settl . first : the uncertain , unsettl condit of thi scienc of cetolog is in the veri vestibul attest by the fact , that in some quarter it still remain a moot point whether a whale be a fish . In hi system of natur , A . D . 1776 , linnaeu declar , `` I herebi separ the whale from the fish . '' but of my own knowledg , I know that down to the year 1850 , shark and shad , alew and her , against linnaeu ' s express edict , were still found divid the possess of the same sea with the leviathan . the ground upon which linnaeu would fain have banish the whale from the water , he state as follow : `` On account of their warm bilocular heart , their lung , their movabl eyelid , their hollow ear , penem intrantem feminam mammi lactantem , '' and final , `` ex lege natura jure meritoqu . '' I submit all thi to my friend simeon macey and charley coffin , of nantucket , both messmat of mine in a certain voyag , and they unit in the opinion that the reason set forth were altogeth insuffici . charley profan hint they were humbug . Be it known that , waiv all argument , I take the good old fashion ground that the whale is a fish , and call upon holi jonah to back me . thi fundament thing settl , the next point is , in what intern respect doe the whale differ from other fish . abov , linnaeu ha given you those item . but in brief , they are these : lung and warm blood ; wherea , all other fish are lungless and cold blood . next : how shall we defin the whale , by hi obviou extern , so as conspicu to label him for all time to come ? To be short , then , a whale is A spout fish with A horizont tail . there you have him . howev contract , that definit is the result of expand medit . A walru spout much like a whale , but the walru is not a fish , becaus he is amphibi . but the last term of the definit is still more cogent , as coupl with the first . almost ani one must have notic that all the fish familiar to landsmen have not a flat , but a vertic , or up - and - down tail . wherea , among spout fish the tail , though it may be similarli shape , invari assum a horizont posit . By the abov definit of what a whale is , I do by no mean exclud from the leviathan brotherhood ani sea creatur hitherto identifi with the whale by the best inform nantucket ; nor , on the other hand , link with it ani fish hitherto authorit regard as alien . * henc , all the smaller , spout , and horizont tail fish must be includ in thi ground - plan of cetolog . now , then , come the grand divis of the entir whale host . * I am awar that down to the present time , the fish style lamatin and dugong ( pig - fish and sow - fish of the coffin of nantucket ) are includ by mani naturalist among the whale . but as these pig - fish are a noisi , contempt set , mostli lurk in the mouth of river , and feed on wet hay , and especi as they do not spout , I deni their credenti as whale ; and have present them with their passport to quit the kingdom of cetolog . first : accord to magnitud I divid the whale into three primari book ( subdivis into chapter ) , and these shall comprehend them all , both small and larg . I . the folio whale ; II . the octavo whale ; iii . the duodecimo whale . As the type of the folio I present the sperm whale ; of the octavo , the grampu ; of the duodecimo , the porpois . folio . among these I here includ the follow chapter : -- I . the sperm whale ; II . the right whale ; iii . the fin - back whale ; IV . the hump - back whale ; V . the razor - back whale ; VI . the sulphur - bottom whale . book I . ( folio ) , chapter I . ( sperm whale ) . -- thi whale , among the english of old vagu known as the trumpa whale , and the physet whale , and the anvil head whale , is the present cachalot of the french , and the pottsfich of the german , and the macrocephalu of the long word . He is , without doubt , the largest inhabit of the globe ; the most formid of all whale to encount ; the most majest in aspect ; and lastli , by far the most valuabl in commerc ; he be the onli creatur from which that valuabl substanc , spermaceti , is obtain . all hi peculiar will , in mani other place , be enlarg upon . It is chiefli with hi name that I now have to do . philolog consid , it is absurd . some centuri ago , when the sperm whale wa almost wholli unknown in hi own proper individu , and when hi oil wa onli accident obtain from the strand fish ; in those day spermaceti , it would seem , wa popularli suppos to be deriv from a creatur ident with the one then known in england as the greenland or right whale . It wa the idea also , that thi same spermaceti wa that quicken humor of the greenland whale which the first syllabl of the word liter express . In those time , also , spermaceti wa exceedingli scarc , not be use for light , but onli as an ointment and medica . It wa onli to be had from the druggist as you nowaday buy an ounc of rhubarb . when , as I opin , in the cours of time , the true natur of spermaceti becam known , it origin name wa still retain by the dealer ; no doubt to enhanc it valu by a notion so strang signific of it scarciti . and so the appel must at last have come to be bestow upon the whale from which thi spermaceti wa realli deriv . book I . ( folio ) , chapter II . ( right whale ) . -- In one respect thi is the most vener of the leviathan , be the one first regularli hunt by man . It yield the articl commonli known as whalebon or baleen ; and the oil special known as `` whale oil , '' an inferior articl in commerc . among the fishermen , he is indiscrimin design by all the follow titl : the whale ; the greenland whale ; the black whale ; the great whale ; the true whale ; the right whale . there is a deal of obscur concern the ident of the speci thu multitudin baptis . what then is the whale , which I includ in the second speci of my folio ? It is the great mysticetu of the english naturalist ; the greenland whale of the english whalemen ; the balien ordinair of the french whalemen ; the growland walfish of the swede . It is the whale which for more than two centuri past ha been hunt by the dutch and english in the arctic sea ; it is the whale which the american fishermen have long pursu in the indian ocean , on the brazil bank , on the nor ' west coast , and variou other part of the world , design by them right whale cruis ground . some pretend to see a differ between the greenland whale of the english and the right whale of the american . but they precis agre in all their grand featur ; nor ha there yet been present a singl determin fact upon which to ground a radic distinct . It is by endless subdivis base upon the most inconclus differ , that some depart of natur histori becom so repellingli intric . the right whale will be elsewher treat of at some length , with refer to elucid the sperm whale . book I . ( folio ) , chapter iii . ( fin - back ) . -- under thi head I reckon a monster which , by the variou name of fin - back , tall - spout , and long - john , ha been seen almost in everi sea and is commonli the whale whose distant jet is so often descri by passeng cross the atlant , in the new york packet - track . In the length he attain , and in hi baleen , the fin - back resembl the right whale , but is of a less portli girth , and a lighter colour , approach to oliv . hi great lip present a cabl - like aspect , form by the intertwist , slant fold of larg wrinkl . hi grand distinguish featur , the fin , from which he deriv hi name , is often a conspicu object . thi fin is some three or four feet long , grow vertic from the hinder part of the back , of an angular shape , and with a veri sharp point end . even if not the slightest other part of the creatur be visibl , thi isol fin will , at time , be seen plainli project from the surfac . when the sea is moder calm , and slightli mark with spheric rippl , and thi gnomon - like fin stand up and cast shadow upon the wrinkl surfac , it may well be suppos that the wateri circl surround it somewhat resembl a dial , with it style and wavi hour - line grave on it . On that ahaz - dial the shadow often goe back . the fin - back is not gregari . He seem a whale - hater , as some men are man - hater . veri shi ; alway go solitari ; unexpectedli rise to the surfac in the remotest and most sullen water ; hi straight and singl lofti jet rise like a tall misanthrop spear upon a barren plain ; gift with such wondrou power and veloc in swim , as to defi all present pursuit from man ; thi leviathan seem the banish and unconquer cain of hi race , bear for hi mark that style upon hi back . from have the baleen in hi mouth , the fin - back is sometim includ with the right whale , among a theoret speci denomin whalebon whale , that is , whale with baleen . Of these so call whalebon whale , there would seem to be sever varieti , most of which , howev , are littl known . broad - nose whale and beak whale ; pike - head whale ; bunch whale ; under - jaw whale and rostrat whale , are the fishermen ' s name for a few sort . In connect with thi appel of `` whalebon whale , '' it is of great import to mention , that howev such a nomenclatur may be conveni in facilit allus to some kind of whale , yet it is in vain to attempt a clear classif of the leviathan , found upon either hi baleen , or hump , or fin , or teeth ; notwithstand that those mark part or featur veri obvious seem better adapt to afford the basi for a regular system of cetolog than ani other detach bodili distinct , which the whale , in hi kind , present . how then ? the baleen , hump , back - fin , and teeth ; these are thing whose peculiar are indiscrimin dispers among all sort of whale , without ani regard to what may be the natur of their structur in other and more essenti particular . thu , the sperm whale and the humpback whale , each ha a hump ; but there the similitud ceas . then , thi same humpback whale and the greenland whale , each of these ha baleen ; but there again the similitud ceas . and it is just the same with the other part abov mention . In variou sort of whale , they form such irregular combin ; or , in the case of ani one of them detach , such an irregular isol ; as utterli to defi all gener method form upon such a basi . On thi rock everi one of the whale - naturalist ha split . but it may possibl be conceiv that , in the intern part of the whale , in hi anatomi -- there , at least , we shall be abl to hit the right classif . nay ; what thing , for exampl , is there in the greenland whale ' s anatomi more strike than hi baleen ? yet we have seen that by hi baleen it is imposs correctli to classifi the greenland whale . and if you descend into the bowel of the variou leviathan , whi there you will not find distinct a fiftieth part as avail to the systemat as those extern one alreadi enumer . what then remain ? noth but to take hold of the whale bodili , in their entir liber volum , and boldli sort them that way . and thi is the bibliograph system here adopt ; and it is the onli one that can possibl succeed , for it alon is practic . To proceed . book I . ( folio ) chapter IV . ( hump - back ) . -- thi whale is often seen on the northern american coast . He ha been frequent captur there , and tow into harbor . He ha a great pack on him like a peddler ; or you might call him the eleph and castl whale . At ani rate , the popular name for him doe not suffici distinguish him , sinc the sperm whale also ha a hump though a smaller one . hi oil is not veri valuabl . He ha baleen . He is the most gamesom and light - heart of all the whale , make more gay foam and white water gener than ani other of them . book I . ( folio ) , chapter V . ( razor - back ) . -- Of thi whale littl is known but hi name . I have seen him at a distanc off cape horn . Of a retir natur , he elud both hunter and philosoph . though no coward , he ha never yet shown ani part of him but hi back , which rise in a long sharp ridg . let him go . I know littl more of him , nor doe anybodi els . book I . ( folio ) , chapter VI . ( sulphur - bottom ) . -- anoth retir gentleman , with a brimston belli , doubtless got by scrape along the tartarian tile in some of hi profound dive . He is seldom seen ; at least I have never seen him except in the remot southern sea , and then alway at too great a distanc to studi hi counten . He is never chase ; he would run away with rope - walk of line . prodigi are told of him . adieu , sulphur bottom ! I can say noth more that is true of ye , nor can the oldest nantucket . thu end book I . ( folio ) , and now begin book II . ( octavo ) . octavo . * -- these embrac the whale of middl magnitud , among which present may be number : -- I . , the grampu ; II . , the black fish ; iii . , the narwhal ; IV . , the thrasher ; V . , the killer . * whi thi book of whale is not denomin the quarto is veri plain . becaus , while the whale of thi order , though smaller than those of the former order , nevertheless retain a proportion like to them in figur , yet the bookbind ' s quarto volum in it dimens form doe not preserv the shape of the folio volum , but the octavo volum doe . book II . ( octavo ) , chapter I . ( grampu ) . -- though thi fish , whose loud sonor breath , or rather blow , ha furnish a proverb to landsmen , is so well known a denizen of the deep , yet is he not popularli class among whale . but possess all the grand distinct featur of the leviathan , most naturalist have recognis him for one . He is of moder octavo size , vari from fifteen to twenti - five feet in length , and of correspond dimens round the waist . He swim in herd ; he is never regularli hunt , though hi oil is consider in quantiti , and pretti good for light . By some fishermen hi approach is regard as premonitori of the advanc of the great sperm whale . book II . ( octavo ) , chapter II . ( black fish ) . -- I give the popular fishermen ' s name for all these fish , for gener they are the best . where ani name happen to be vagu or inexpress , I shall say so , and suggest anoth . I do so now , touch the black fish , so - call , becaus black is the rule among almost all whale . So , call him the hyena whale , if you pleas . hi vorac is well known , and from the circumst that the inner angl of hi lip are curv upward , he carri an everlast mephistophelean grin on hi face . thi whale averag some sixteen or eighteen feet in length . He is found in almost all latitud . He ha a peculiar way of show hi dorsal hook fin in swim , which look someth like a roman nose . when not more profit employ , the sperm whale hunter sometim captur the hyena whale , to keep up the suppli of cheap oil for domest employ -- as some frugal housekeep , in the absenc of compani , and quit alon by themselv , burn unsavori tallow instead of odor wax . though their blubber is veri thin , some of these whale will yield you upward of thirti gallon of oil . book II . ( octavo ) , chapter iii . ( narwhal ) , that is , nostril whale . -- anoth instanc of a curious name whale , so name I suppos from hi peculiar horn be origin mistaken for a peak nose . the creatur is some sixteen feet in length , while it horn averag five feet , though some exceed ten , and even attain to fifteen feet . strictli speak , thi horn is but a lengthen tusk , grow out from the jaw in a line a littl depress from the horizont . but it is onli found on the sinist side , which ha an ill effect , give it owner someth analog to the aspect of a clumsi left - hand man . what precis purpos thi ivori horn or lanc answer , it would be hard to say . It doe not seem to be use like the blade of the sword - fish and bill - fish ; though some sailor tell me that the narwhal employ it for a rake in turn over the bottom of the sea for food . charley coffin said it wa use for an ice - piercer ; for the narwhal , rise to the surfac of the polar sea , and find it sheet with ice , thrust hi horn up , and so break through . but you can not prove either of these surmis to be correct . My own opinion is , that howev thi one - side horn may realli be use by the narwhal -- howev that may be -- it would certainli be veri conveni to him for a folder in read pamphlet . the narwhal I have heard call the tusk whale , the horn whale , and the unicorn whale . He is certainli a curiou exampl of the unicorn to be found in almost everi kingdom of anim natur . from certain cloister old author I have gather that thi same sea - unicorn ' s horn wa in ancient day regard as the great antidot against poison , and as such , prepar of it brought immens price . It wa also distil to a volatil salt for faint ladi , the same way that the horn of the male deer are manufactur into hartshorn . origin it wa in itself account an object of great curios . black letter tell me that sir martin frobish on hi return from that voyag , when queen bess did gallantli wave her jewel hand to him from a window of greenwich palac , as hi bold ship sail down the thame ; `` when sir martin return from that voyag , '' saith black letter , `` on bend knee he present to her high a prodigi long horn of the narwhal , which for a long period after hung in the castl at windsor . '' An irish author aver that the earl of leicest , on bend knee , did likewis present to her high anoth horn , pertain to a land beast of the unicorn natur . the narwhal ha a veri picturesqu , leopard - like look , be of a milk - white ground colour , dot with round and oblong spot of black . hi oil is veri superior , clear and fine ; but there is littl of it , and he is seldom hunt . He is mostli found in the circumpolar sea . book II . ( octavo ) , chapter IV . ( killer ) . -- Of thi whale littl is precis known to the nantucket , and noth at all to the profess naturalist . from what I have seen of him at a distanc , I should say that he wa about the big of a grampu . He is veri savag -- a sort of feege fish . He sometim take the great folio whale by the lip , and hang there like a leech , till the mighti brute is worri to death . the killer is never hunt . I never heard what sort of oil he ha . except might be taken to the name bestow upon thi whale , on the ground of it indistinct . for we are all killer , on land and on sea ; bonapart and shark includ . book II . ( octavo ) , chapter V . ( thrasher ) . -- thi gentleman is famou for hi tail , which he use for a ferul in thrash hi foe . He mount the folio whale ' s back , and as he swim , he work hi passag by flog him ; as some schoolmast get along in the world by a similar process . still less is known of the thrasher than of the killer . both are outlaw , even in the lawless sea . thu end book II . ( octavo ) , and begin book iii . ( duodecimo ) . duodecimo . -- these includ the smaller whale . I . the huzza porpois . II . the algerin porpois . iii . the meali - mouth porpois . To those who have not chanc special to studi the subject , it may possibl seem strang , that fish not commonli exceed four or five feet should be marshal among whale -- a word , which , in the popular sens , alway convey an idea of huge . but the creatur set down abov as duodecimo are infal whale , by the term of my definit of what a whale is -- i . e . a spout fish , with a horizont tail . book iii . ( duodecimo ) , chapter 1 . ( huzza porpois ) . -- thi is the common porpois found almost all over the globe . the name is of my own bestow ; for there are more than one sort of porpois , and someth must be done to distinguish them . I call him thu , becaus he alway swim in hilari shoal , which upon the broad sea keep toss themselv to heaven like cap in a fourth - of - juli crowd . their appear is gener hail with delight by the marin . full of fine spirit , they invari come from the breezi billow to windward . they are the lad that alway live befor the wind . they are account a lucki omen . If you yourself can withstand three cheer at behold these vivaci fish , then heaven help ye ; the spirit of godli gamesom is not in ye . A well - fed , plump huzza porpois will yield you one good gallon of good oil . but the fine and delic fluid extract from hi jaw is exceedingli valuabl . It is in request among jewel and watchmak . sailor put it on their hone . porpois meat is good eat , you know . It may never have occur to you that a porpois spout . inde , hi spout is so small that it is not veri readili discern . but the next time you have a chanc , watch him ; and you will then see the great sperm whale himself in miniatur . book iii . ( duodecimo ) , chapter II . ( algerin porpois ) . -- A pirat . veri savag . He is onli found , I think , in the pacif . He is somewhat larger than the huzza porpois , but much of the same gener make . provok him , and he will buckl to a shark . I have lower for him mani time , but never yet saw him captur . book iii . ( duodecimo ) , chapter iii . ( meali - mouth porpois ) . -- the largest kind of porpois ; and onli found in the pacif , so far as it is known . the onli english name , by which he ha hitherto been design , is that of the fisher -- right - whale porpois , from the circumst that he is chiefli found in the vicin of that folio . In shape , he differ in some degre from the huzza porpois , be of a less rotund and jolli girth ; inde , he is of quit a neat and gentleman - like figur . He ha no fin on hi back ( most other porpois have ) , he ha a love tail , and sentiment indian eye of a hazel hue . but hi meali - mouth spoil all . though hi entir back down to hi side fin is of a deep sabl , yet a boundari line , distinct as the mark in a ship ' s hull , call the `` bright waist , '' that line streak him from stem to stern , with two separ colour , black abov and white below . the white compris part of hi head , and the whole of hi mouth , which make him look as if he had just escap from a feloni visit to a meal - bag . A most mean and meali aspect ! hi oil is much like that of the common porpois . beyond the duodecimo , thi system doe not proceed , inasmuch as the porpois is the smallest of the whale . abov , you have all the leviathan of note . but there are a rabbl of uncertain , fugit , half - fabul whale , which , as an american whaleman , I know by reput , but not person . I shall enumer them by their fore - castl appel ; for possibl such a list may be valuabl to futur investig , who may complet what I have here but begun . If ani of the follow whale , shall hereaft be caught and mark , then he can readili be incorpor into thi system , accord to hi folio , octavo , or duodecimo magnitud : -- the bottl - nose whale ; the junk whale ; the pud - head whale ; the cape whale ; the lead whale ; the cannon whale ; the scragg whale ; the copper whale ; the eleph whale ; the iceberg whale ; the quog whale ; the blue whale ; etc . from iceland , dutch , and old english author , there might be quot other list of uncertain whale , bless with all manner of uncouth name . but I omit them as altogeth obsolet ; and can hardli help suspect them for mere sound , full of leviathan , but signifi noth . final : It wa state at the outset , that thi system would not be here , and at onc , perfect . you can not but plainli see that I have kept my word . but I now leav my cetolog system stand thu unfinish , even as the great cathedr of cologn wa left , with the crane still stand upon the top of the uncomplet tower . for small erect may be finish by their first architect ; grand one , true one , ever leav the copeston to poster . god keep me from ever complet anyth . thi whole book is but a draught -- nay , but the draught of a draught . Oh , time , strength , cash , and patienc ! chapter 33 the specksynd . concern the offic of the whale - craft , thi seem as good a place as ani to set down a littl domest peculiar on ship - board , aris from the exist of the harpoon class of offic , a class unknown of cours in ani other marin than the whale - fleet . the larg import attach to the harpoon ' s vocat is evinc by the fact , that origin in the old dutch fisheri , two centuri and more ago , the command of a whale ship wa not wholli lodg in the person now call the captain , but wa divid between him and an offic call the specksynd . liter thi word mean fat - cutter ; usag , howev , in time made it equival to chief harpoon . In those day , the captain ' s author wa restrict to the navig and gener manag of the vessel ; while over the whale - hunt depart and all it concern , the specksynd or chief harpoon reign suprem . In the british greenland fisheri , under the corrupt titl of specksion , thi old dutch offici is still retain , but hi former digniti is sadli abridg . At present he rank simpli as senior harpoon ; and as such , is but one of the captain ' s more inferior subaltern . nevertheless , as upon the good conduct of the harpoon the success of a whale voyag larg depend , and sinc in the american fisheri he is not onli an import offic in the boat , but under certain circumst ( night watch on a whale ground ) the command of the ship ' s deck is also hi ; therefor the grand polit maxim of the sea demand , that he should nomin live apart from the men befor the mast , and be in some way distinguish as their profession superior ; though alway , by them , familiarli regard as their social equal . now , the grand distinct drawn between offic and man at sea , is thi -- the first live aft , the last forward . henc , in whale - ship and merchantmen alik , the mate have their quarter with the captain ; and so , too , in most of the american whaler the harpoon are lodg in the after part of the ship . that is to say , they take their meal in the captain ' s cabin , and sleep in a place indirectli commun with it . though the long period of a southern whale voyag ( by far the longest of all voyag now or ever made by man ) , the peculiar peril of it , and the commun of interest prevail among a compani , all of whom , high or low , depend for their profit , not upon fix wage , but upon their common luck , togeth with their common vigil , intrepid , and hard work ; though all these thing do in some case tend to beget a less rigor disciplin than in merchantmen gener ; yet , never mind how much like an old mesopotamian famili these whalemen may , in some primit instanc , live togeth ; for all that , the punctili extern , at least , of the quarter - deck are seldom materi relax , and in no instanc done away . inde , mani are the nantucket ship in which you will see the skipper parad hi quarter - deck with an elat grandeur not surpass in ani militari navi ; nay , extort almost as much outward homag as if he wore the imperi purpl , and not the shabbiest of pilot - cloth . and though of all men the moodi captain of the pequod wa the least given to that sort of shallowest assumpt ; and though the onli homag he ever exact , wa implicit , instantan obedi ; though he requir no man to remov the shoe from hi feet ere step upon the quarter - deck ; and though there were time when , owe to peculiar circumst connect with event hereaft to be detail , he address them in unusu term , whether of condescens or IN terrorem , or otherwis ; yet even captain ahab wa by no mean unobserv of the paramount form and usag of the sea . nor , perhap , will it fail to be eventu perceiv , that behind those form and usag , as it were , he sometim mask himself ; incident make use of them for other and more privat end than they were legitim intend to subserv . that certain sultan of hi brain , which had otherwis in a good degre remain unmanifest ; through those form that same sultan becam incarn in an irresist dictatorship . for be a man ' s intellectu superior what it will , it can never assum the practic , avail supremaci over other men , without the aid of some sort of extern art and entrench , alway , in themselv , more or less paltri and base . thi it is , that for ever keep god ' s true princ of the empir from the world ' s hust ; and leav the highest honour that thi air can give , to those men who becom famou more through their infinit inferior to the choic hidden hand of the divin inert , than through their undoubt superior over the dead level of the mass . such larg virtu lurk in these small thing when extrem polit superstit invest them , that in some royal instanc even to idiot imbecil they have impart potenc . but when , as in the case of nichola the czar , the ring crown of geograph empir encircl an imperi brain ; then , the plebeian herd crouch abas befor the tremend central . nor , will the tragic dramatist who would depict mortal indomit in it fullest sweep and direct swing , ever forget a hint , incident so import in hi art , as the one now allud to . but ahab , my captain , still move befor me in all hi nantucket grim and shaggi ; and in thi episod touch emperor and king , I must not conceal that I have onli to do with a poor old whale - hunter like him ; and , therefor , all outward majest trap and hous are deni me . Oh , ahab ! what shall be grand in thee , it must need be pluck at from the sky , and dive for in the deep , and featur in the unbodi air ! chapter 34 the cabin - tabl . It is noon ; and dough - boy , the steward , thrust hi pale loaf - of - bread face from the cabin - scuttl , announc dinner to hi lord and master ; who , sit in the lee quarter - boat , ha just been take an observ of the sun ; and is now mute reckon the latitud on the smooth , medallion - shape tablet , reserv for that daili purpos on the upper part of hi ivori leg . from hi complet inattent to the tide , you would think that moodi ahab had not heard hi menial . but present , catch hold of the mizen shroud , he swing himself to the deck , and in an even , unexhilar voic , say , `` dinner , Mr . starbuck , '' disappear into the cabin . when the last echo of hi sultan ' s step ha die away , and starbuck , the first emir , ha everi reason to suppos that he is seat , then starbuck rous from hi quietud , take a few turn along the plank , and , after a grave peep into the binnacl , say , with some touch of pleasant , `` dinner , Mr . stubb , '' and descend the scuttl . the second emir loung about the rig awhil , and then slightli shake the main brace , to see whether it will be all right with that import rope , he likewis take up the old burden , and with a rapid `` dinner , Mr . flask , '' follow after hi predecessor . but the third emir , now see himself all alon on the quarter - deck , seem to feel reliev from some curiou restraint ; for , tip all sort of know wink in all sort of direct , and kick off hi shoe , he strike into a sharp but noiseless squall of a hornpip right over the grand turk ' s head ; and then , by a dexter sleight , pitch hi cap up into the mizentop for a shelf , he goe down rollick so far at least as he remain visibl from the deck , revers all other process , by bring up the rear with music . but ere step into the cabin doorway below , he paus , ship a new face altogeth , and , then , independ , hilari littl flask enter king ahab ' s presenc , in the charact of abjectu , or the slave . It is not the least among the strang thing bred by the intens artifici of sea - usag , that while in the open air of the deck some offic will , upon provoc , bear themselv boldli and defyingli enough toward their command ; yet , ten to one , let those veri offic the next moment go down to their customari dinner in that same command ' s cabin , and straightway their inoffens , not to say deprecatori and humbl air toward him , as he sit at the head of the tabl ; thi is marvel , sometim most comic . wherefor thi differ ? A problem ? perhap not . To have been belshazzar , king of babylon ; and to have been belshazzar , not haughtili but courteous , therein certainli must have been some touch of mundan grandeur . but he who in the rightli regal and intellig spirit presid over hi own privat dinner - tabl of invit guest , that man ' s unchalleng power and dominion of individu influenc for the time ; that man ' s royalti of state transcend belshazzar ' s , for belshazzar wa not the greatest . who ha but onc dine hi friend , ha tast what it is to be caesar . It is a witcheri of social czarship which there is no withstand . now , if to thi consider you superadd the offici supremaci of a ship - master , then , by infer , you will deriv the caus of that peculiar of sea - life just mention . over hi ivori - inlaid tabl , ahab presid like a mute , mane sea - lion on the white coral beach , surround by hi warlik but still deferenti cub . In hi own proper turn , each offic wait to be serv . they were as littl children befor ahab ; and yet , in ahab , there seem not to lurk the smallest social arrog . with one mind , their intent eye all fasten upon the old man ' s knife , as he carv the chief dish befor him . I do not suppos that for the world they would have profan that moment with the slightest observ , even upon so neutral a topic as the weather . No ! and when reach out hi knife and fork , between which the slice of beef wa lock , ahab therebi motion starbuck ' s plate toward him , the mate receiv hi meat as though receiv alm ; and cut it tenderli ; and a littl start if , perchanc , the knife graze against the plate ; and chew it noiselessli ; and swallow it , not without circumspect . for , like the coron banquet at frankfort , where the german emperor profoundli dine with the seven imperi elector , so these cabin meal were somehow solemn meal , eaten in aw silenc ; and yet at tabl old ahab forbad not convers ; onli he himself wa dumb . what a relief it wa to choke stubb , when a rat made a sudden racket in the hold below . and poor littl flask , he wa the youngest son , and littl boy of thi weari famili parti . hi were the shinbon of the salin beef ; hi would have been the drumstick . for flask to have presum to help himself , thi must have seem to him tantamount to larceni in the first degre . had he help himself at that tabl , doubtless , never more would he have been abl to hold hi head up in thi honest world ; nevertheless , strang to say , ahab never forbad him . and had flask help himself , the chanc were ahab had never so much as notic it . least of all , did flask presum to help himself to butter . whether he thought the owner of the ship deni it to him , on account of it clot hi clear , sunni complexion ; or whether he deem that , on so long a voyag in such marketless water , butter wa at a premium , and therefor wa not for him , a subaltern ; howev it wa , flask , ala ! wa a butterless man ! anoth thing . flask wa the last person down at the dinner , and flask is the first man up . consid ! for herebi flask ' s dinner wa badli jam in point of time . starbuck and stubb both had the start of him ; and yet they also have the privileg of loung in the rear . If stubb even , who is but a peg higher than flask , happen to have but a small appetit , and soon show symptom of conclud hi repast , then flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouth that day ; for it is against holi usag for stubb to preced flask to the deck . therefor it wa that flask onc admit in privat , that ever sinc he had arisen to the digniti of an offic , from that moment he had never known what it wa to be otherwis than hungri , more or less . for what he ate did not so much reliev hi hunger , as keep it immort in him . peac and satisfact , thought flask , have for ever depart from my stomach . I am an offic ; but , how I wish I could fish a bit of old - fashion beef in the forecastl , as I use to when I wa befor the mast . there ' s the fruit of promot now ; there ' s the vaniti of glori : there ' s the insan of life ! besid , if it were so that ani mere sailor of the pequod had a grudg against flask in flask ' s offici capac , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ampl vengeanc , wa to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at flask through the cabin sky - light , sit silli and dumfound befor aw ahab . now , ahab and hi three mate form what may be call the first tabl in the pequod ' s cabin . after their departur , take place in invert order to their arriv , the canva cloth wa clear , or rather wa restor to some hurri order by the pallid steward . and then the three harpoon were bidden to the feast , they be it residuari legate . they made a sort of temporari servant ' hall of the high and mighti cabin . In strang contrast to the hardli toler constraint and nameless invis domin of the captain ' s tabl , wa the entir care - free licens and eas , the almost frantic democraci of those inferior fellow the harpoon . while their master , the mate , seem afraid of the sound of the hing of their own jaw , the harpoon chew their food with such a relish that there wa a report to it . they dine like lord ; they fill their belli like indian ship all day load with spice . such portent appetit had queequeg and tashtego , that to fill out the vacanc made by the previou repast , often the pale dough - boy wa fain to bring on a great baron of salt - junk , seemingli quarri out of the solid ox . and if he were not live about it , if he did not go with a nimbl hop - skip - and - jump , then tashtego had an ungentlemanli way of acceler him by dart a fork at hi back , harpoon - wise . and onc daggoo , seiz with a sudden humor , assist dough - boy ' s memori by snatch him up bodili , and thrust hi head into a great empti wooden trencher , while tashtego , knife in hand , began lay out the circl preliminari to scalp him . He wa natur a veri nervou , shudder sort of littl fellow , thi bread - face steward ; the progeni of a bankrupt baker and a hospit nurs . and what with the stand spectacl of the black terrif ahab , and the period tumultu visit of these three savag , dough - boy ' s whole life wa one continu lip - quiver . commonli , after see the harpoon furnish with all thing they demand , he would escap from their clutch into hi littl pantri adjoin , and fear peep out at them through the blind of it door , till all wa over . It wa a sight to see queequeg seat over against tashtego , oppos hi file teeth to the indian ' s : crosswis to them , daggoo seat on the floor , for a bench would have brought hi hears - plume head to the low carlin ; at everi motion of hi coloss limb , make the low cabin framework to shake , as when an african eleph goe passeng in a ship . but for all thi , the great negro wa wonder abstemi , not to say dainti . It seem hardli possibl that by such compar small mouth he could keep up the vital diffus through so broad , baroni , and superb a person . but , doubtless , thi nobl savag fed strong and drank deep of the abound element of air ; and through hi dilat nostril snuf in the sublim life of the world . not by beef or by bread , are giant made or nourish . but queequeg , he had a mortal , barbar smack of the lip in eat -- an ugli sound enough -- so much so , that the trembl dough - boy almost look to see whether ani mark of teeth lurk in hi own lean arm . and when he would hear tashtego sing out for him to produc himself , that hi bone might be pick , the simpl - wit steward all but shatter the crockeri hang round him in the pantri , by hi sudden fit of the palsi . nor did the whetston which the harpoon carri in their pocket , for their lanc and other weapon ; and with which whetston , at dinner , they would ostentati sharpen their knive ; that grate sound did not at all tend to tranquil poor dough - boy . how could he forget that in hi island day , queequeg , for one , must certainli have been guilti of some murder , convivi indiscret . ala ! dough - boy ! hard fare the white waiter who wait upon cannib . not a napkin should he carri on hi arm , but a buckler . In good time , though , to hi great delight , the three salt - sea warrior would rise and depart ; to hi credul , fabl - monger ear , all their martial bone jingl in them at everi step , like moorish scimetar in scabbard . but , though these barbarian dine in the cabin , and nomin live there ; still , be anyth but sedentari in their habit , they were scarc ever in it except at mealtim , and just befor sleep - time , when they pass through it to their own peculiar quarter . In thi one matter , ahab seem no except to most american whale captain , who , as a set , rather inclin to the opinion that by right the ship ' s cabin belong to them ; and that it is by courtesi alon that anybodi els is , at ani time , permit there . So that , in real truth , the mate and harpoon of the pequod might more properli be said to have live out of the cabin than in it . for when they did enter it , it wa someth as a street - door enter a hous ; turn inward for a moment , onli to be turn out the next ; and , as a perman thing , resid in the open air . nor did they lose much herebi ; in the cabin wa no companionship ; social , ahab wa inaccess . though nomin includ in the censu of christendom , he wa still an alien to it . He live in the world , as the last of the grisli bear live in settl missouri . and as when spring and summer had depart , that wild logan of the wood , buri himself in the hollow of a tree , live out the winter there , suck hi own paw ; so , in hi inclement , howl old age , ahab ' s soul , shut up in the cave trunk of hi bodi , there fed upon the sullen paw of it gloom ! chapter 35 the mast - head . It wa dure the more pleasant weather , that in due rotat with the other seamen my first mast - head came round . In most american whalemen the mast - head are man almost simultan with the vessel ' s leav her port ; even though she may have fifteen thousand mile , and more , to sail ere reach her proper cruis ground . and if , after a three , four , or five year ' voyag she is draw nigh home with anyth empti in her -- say , an empti vial even -- then , her mast - head are kept man to the last ; and not till her skysail - pole sail in among the spire of the port , doe she altogeth relinquish the hope of captur one whale more . now , as the busi of stand mast - head , ashor or afloat , is a veri ancient and interest one , let us in some measur expati here . I take it , that the earliest stander of mast - head were the old egyptian ; becaus , in all my research , I find none prior to them . for though their progenitor , the builder of babel , must doubtless , by their tower , have intend to rear the loftiest mast - head in all asia , or africa either ; yet ( ere the final truck wa put to it ) as that great stone mast of their may be said to have gone by the board , in the dread gale of god ' s wrath ; therefor , we can not give these babel builder prioriti over the egyptian . and that the egyptian were a nation of mast - head stander , is an assert base upon the gener belief among archaeologist , that the first pyramid were found for astronom purpos : a theori singularli support by the peculiar stair - like format of all four side of those edific ; wherebi , with prodigi long uplift of their leg , those old astronom were wont to mount to the apex , and sing out for new star ; even as the look - out of a modern ship sing out for a sail , or a whale just bear in sight . In saint stylit , the famou christian hermit of old time , who built him a lofti stone pillar in the desert and spent the whole latter portion of hi life on it summit , hoist hi food from the ground with a tackl ; in him we have a remark instanc of a dauntless stander - of - mast - head ; who wa not to be driven from hi place by fog or frost , rain , hail , or sleet ; but valiantli face everyth out to the last , liter die at hi post . Of modern stander - of - mast - head we have but a lifeless set ; mere stone , iron , and bronz men ; who , though well capabl of face out a stiff gale , are still entir incompet to the busi of sing out upon discov ani strang sight . there is napoleon ; who , upon the top of the column of vendom , stand with arm fold , some one hundr and fifti feet in the air ; careless , now , who rule the deck below ; whether loui philipp , loui blanc , or loui the devil . great washington , too , stand high aloft on hi tower main - mast in baltimor , and like one of hercul ' pillar , hi column mark that point of human grandeur beyond which few mortal will go . admir nelson , also , on a capstan of gun - metal , stand hi mast - head in trafalgar squar ; and ever when most obscur by that london smoke , token is yet given that a hidden hero is there ; for where there is smoke , must be fire . but neither great washington , nor napoleon , nor nelson , will answer a singl hail from below , howev madli invok to befriend by their counsel the distract deck upon which they gaze ; howev it may be surmis , that their spirit penetr through the thick haze of the futur , and descri what shoal and what rock must be shun . It may seem unwarrant to coupl in ani respect the mast - head stander of the land with those of the sea ; but that in truth it is not so , is plainli evinc by an item for which obe maci , the sole historian of nantucket , stand account . the worthi obe tell us , that in the earli time of the whale fisheri , ere ship were regularli launch in pursuit of the game , the peopl of that island erect lofti spar along the sea - coast , to which the look - out ascend by mean of nail cleat , someth as fowl go upstair in a hen - hous . A few year ago thi same plan wa adopt by the bay whalemen of new zealand , who , upon descri the game , gave notic to the readi - man boat nigh the beach . but thi custom ha now becom obsolet ; turn we then to the one proper mast - head , that of a whale - ship at sea . the three mast - head are kept man from sun - rise to sun - set ; the seamen take their regular turn ( as at the helm ) , and reliev each other everi two hour . In the seren weather of the tropic it is exceedingli pleasant the mast - head ; nay , to a dreami medit man it is delight . there you stand , a hundr feet abov the silent deck , stride along the deep , as if the mast were gigant stilt , while beneath you and between your leg , as it were , swim the hugest monster of the sea , even as ship onc sail between the boot of the famou colossu at old rhode . there you stand , lost in the infinit seri of the sea , with noth ruffl but the wave . the tranc ship indol roll ; the drowsi trade wind blow ; everyth resolv you into languor . for the most part , in thi tropic whale life , a sublim unev invest you ; you hear no news ; read no gazett ; extra with startl account of commonplac never delud you into unnecessari excit ; you hear of no domest afflict ; bankrupt secur ; fall of stock ; are never troubl with the thought of what you shall have for dinner -- for all your meal for three year and more are snugli stow in cask , and your bill of fare is immut . In one of those southern whalesmen , on a long three or four year ' voyag , as often happen , the sum of the variou hour you spend at the mast - head would amount to sever entir month . and it is much to be deplor that the place to which you devot so consider a portion of the whole term of your natur life , should be so sadli destitut of anyth approach to a cosi inhabit , or adapt to breed a comfort local of feel , such as pertain to a bed , a hammock , a hears , a sentri box , a pulpit , a coach , or ani other of those small and snug contriv in which men temporarili isol themselv . your most usual point of perch is the head of the t ' gallant - mast , where you stand upon two thin parallel stick ( almost peculiar to whalemen ) call the t ' gallant cross - tree . here , toss about by the sea , the beginn feel about as cosi as he would stand on a bull ' s horn . To be sure , in cold weather you may carri your hous aloft with you , in the shape of a watch - coat ; but properli speak the thickest watch - coat is no more of a hous than the unclad bodi ; for as the soul is glu insid of it fleshi tabernacl , and can not freeli move about in it , nor even move out of it , without run great risk of perish ( like an ignor pilgrim cross the snowi alp in winter ) ; so a watch - coat is not so much of a hous as it is a mere envelop , or addit skin encas you . you can not put a shelf or chest of drawer in your bodi , and no more can you make a conveni closet of your watch - coat . concern all thi , it is much to be deplor that the mast - head of a southern whale ship are unprovid with those enviabl littl tent or pulpit , call crow ' S - nest , in which the look - out of a greenland whaler are protect from the inclement weather of the frozen sea . In the firesid narr of captain sleet , entitl `` A voyag among the iceberg , in quest of the greenland whale , and incident for the re - discoveri of the lost iceland coloni of old greenland ; '' in thi admir volum , all stander of mast - head are furnish with a charmingli circumstanti account of the then recent invent crow ' S - nest of the glacier , which wa the name of captain sleet ' s good craft . He call it the sleet ' S crow ' S - nest , in honour of himself ; he be the origin inventor and patente , and free from all ridicul fals delicaci , and hold that if we call our own children after our own name ( we father be the origin inventor and patente ) , so likewis should we denomin after ourselv ani other apparatu we may beget . In shape , the sleet ' s crow ' s - nest is someth like a larg tierc or pipe ; it is open abov , howev , where it is furnish with a movabl side - screen to keep to windward of your head in a hard gale . be fix on the summit of the mast , you ascend into it through a littl trap - hatch in the bottom . On the after side , or side next the stern of the ship , is a comfort seat , with a locker underneath for umbrella , comfort , and coat . In front is a leather rack , in which to keep your speak trumpet , pipe , telescop , and other nautic conveni . when captain sleet in person stood hi mast - head in thi crow ' s - nest of hi , he tell us that he alway had a rifl with him ( also fix in the rack ) , togeth with a powder flask and shot , for the purpos of pop off the stray narwhal , or vagrant sea unicorn infest those water ; for you can not success shoot at them from the deck owe to the resist of the water , but to shoot down upon them is a veri differ thing . now , it wa plainli a labor of love for captain sleet to describ , as he doe , all the littl detail conveni of hi crow ' s - nest ; but though he so enlarg upon mani of these , and though he treat us to a veri scientif account of hi experi in thi crow ' s - nest , with a small compass he kept there for the purpos of counteract the error result from what is call the `` local attract `` of all binnacl magnet ; an error ascrib to the horizont vicin of the iron in the ship ' s plank , and in the glacier ' s case , perhap , to there have been so mani broken - down blacksmith among her crew ; I say , that though the captain is veri discreet and scientif here , yet , for all hi learn `` binnacl deviat , '' `` azimuth compass observ , '' and `` approxim error , '' he know veri well , captain sleet , that he wa not so much immers in those profound magnet medit , as to fail be attract occasion toward that well replenish littl case - bottl , so nice tuck in on one side of hi crow ' s nest , within easi reach of hi hand . though , upon the whole , I greatli admir and even love the brave , the honest , and learn captain ; yet I take it veri ill of him that he should so utterli ignor that case - bottl , see what a faith friend and comfort it must have been , while with mitten finger and hood head he wa studi the mathemat aloft there in that bird ' s nest within three or four perch of the pole . but if we southern whale - fisher are not so snugli hous aloft as captain sleet and hi greenlandmen were ; yet that disadvantag is greatli counter - balanc by the wide contrast seren of those seduct sea in which we south fisher mostli float . for one , I use to loung up the rig veri leisur , rest in the top to have a chat with queequeg , or ani one els off duti whom I might find there ; then ascend a littl way further , and throw a lazi leg over the top - sail yard , take a preliminari view of the wateri pastur , and so at last mount to my ultim destin . let me make a clean breast of it here , and frankli admit that I kept but sorri guard . with the problem of the univers revolv in me , how could I -- be left complet to myself at such a thought - engend altitud -- how could I but lightli hold my oblig to observ all whale - ship ' stand order , `` keep your weather eye open , and sing out everi time . '' and let me in thi place movingli admonish you , ye ship - owner of nantucket ! bewar of enlist in your vigil fisheri ani lad with lean brow and hollow eye ; given to unseason medit ; and who offer to ship with the phaedon instead of bowditch in hi head . bewar of such an one , I say ; your whale must be seen befor they can be kill ; and thi sunken - eye young platonist will tow you ten wake round the world , and never make you one pint of sperm the richer . nor are these monit at all unneed . for nowaday , the whale - fisheri furnish an asylum for mani romant , melancholi , and absent - mind young men , disgust with the cark care of earth , and seek sentiment in tar and blubber . child harold not unfrequ perch himself upon the mast - head of some luckless disappoint whale - ship , and in moodi phrase ejacul : -- `` roll on , thou deep and dark blue ocean , roll ! ten thousand blubber - hunter sweep over thee in vain . '' veri often do the captain of such ship take those absent - mind young philosoph to task , upbraid them with not feel suffici `` interest `` in the voyag ; half - hint that they are so hopelessli lost to all honour ambit , as that in their secret soul they would rather not see whale than otherwis . but all in vain ; those young platonist have a notion that their vision is imperfect ; they are short - sight ; what use , then , to strain the visual nerv ? they have left their opera - glass at home . `` whi , thou monkey , '' said a harpoon to one of these lad , `` we ' ve been cruis now hard upon three year , and thou hast not rais a whale yet . whale are scarc as hen ' s teeth whenev thou art up here . '' perhap they were ; or perhap there might have been shoal of them in the far horizon ; but lull into such an opium - like listless of vacant , unconsci reveri is thi absent - mind youth by the blend cadenc of wave with thought , that at last he lose hi ident ; take the mystic ocean at hi feet for the visibl imag of that deep , blue , bottomless soul , pervad mankind and natur ; and everi strang , half - seen , glide , beauti thing that elud him ; everi dimli - discov , upris fin of some undiscern form , seem to him the embodi of those elus thought that onli peopl the soul by continu flit through it . In thi enchant mood , thi spirit ebb away to whenc it came ; becom diffus through time and space ; like crammer ' s sprinkl pantheist ash , form at last a part of everi shore the round globe over . there is no life in thee , now , except that rock life impart by a gentli roll ship ; by her , borrow from the sea ; by the sea , from the inscrut tide of god . but while thi sleep , thi dream is on ye , move your foot or hand an inch ; slip your hold at all ; and your ident come back in horror . over descartian vortic you hover . and perhap , at mid - day , in the fairest weather , with one half - throttl shriek you drop through that transpar air into the summer sea , no more to rise for ever . heed it well , ye pantheist ! chapter 36 the quarter - deck . ( enter ahab : then , all ) It wa not a great while after the affair of the pipe , that one morn shortli after breakfast , ahab , as wa hi wont , ascend the cabin - gangway to the deck . there most sea - captain usual walk at that hour , as countri gentlemen , after the same meal , take a few turn in the garden . soon hi steadi , ivori stride wa heard , as to and fro he pace hi old round , upon plank so familiar to hi tread , that they were all over dent , like geolog stone , with the peculiar mark of hi walk . did you fixedli gaze , too , upon that rib and dent brow ; there also , you would see still stranger foot - print -- the foot - print of hi one unsleep , ever - pace thought . but on the occas in question , those dent look deeper , even as hi nervou step that morn left a deeper mark . and , so full of hi thought wa ahab , that at everi uniform turn that he made , now at the main - mast and now at the binnacl , you could almost see that thought turn in him as he turn , and pace in him as he pace ; so complet possess him , inde , that it all but seem the inward mould of everi outer movement . `` D ' ye mark him , flask ? '' whisper stubb ; `` the chick that ' s in him peck the shell . ' twill soon be out . '' the hour wore on ; -- ahab now shut up within hi cabin ; anon , pace the deck , with the same intens bigotri of purpos in hi aspect . It drew near the close of day . suddenli he came to a halt by the bulwark , and insert hi bone leg into the auger - hole there , and with one hand grasp a shroud , he order starbuck to send everybodi aft . `` sir ! '' said the mate , astonish at an order seldom or never given on ship - board except in some extraordinari case . `` send everybodi aft , '' repeat ahab . `` mast - head , there ! come down ! '' when the entir ship ' s compani were assembl , and with curiou and not wholli unapprehens face , were eye him , for he look not unlik the weather horizon when a storm is come up , ahab , after rapidli glanc over the bulwark , and then dart hi eye among the crew , start from hi standpoint ; and as though not a soul were nigh him resum hi heavi turn upon the deck . with bent head and half - slouch hat he continu to pace , unmind of the wonder whisper among the men ; till stubb cautious whisper to flask , that ahab must have summon them there for the purpos of wit a pedestrian feat . but thi did not last long . vehement paus , he cri : -- `` what do ye do when ye see a whale , men ? '' `` sing out for him ! '' wa the impuls rejoind from a score of club voic . `` good ! '' cri ahab , with a wild approv in hi tone ; observ the hearti anim into which hi unexpect question had so magnet thrown them . `` and what do ye next , men ? '' `` lower away , and after him ! '' `` and what tune is it ye pull to , men ? '' `` A dead whale or a stove boat ! '' more and more strang and fierc glad and approv , grew the counten of the old man at everi shout ; while the marin began to gaze curious at each other , as if marvel how it wa that they themselv becam so excit at such seemingli purposeless question . but , they were all eager again , as ahab , now half - revolv in hi pivot - hole , with one hand reach high up a shroud , and tightli , almost convuls grasp it , address them thu : -- `` all ye mast - header have befor now heard me give order about a white whale . look ye ! d ' ye see thi spanish ounc of gold ? '' -- hold up a broad bright coin to the sun -- '' it is a sixteen dollar piec , men . D ' ye see it ? Mr . starbuck , hand me yon top - maul . '' while the mate wa get the hammer , ahab , without speak , wa slowli rub the gold piec against the skirt of hi jacket , as if to heighten it lustr , and without use ani word wa meanwhil lowli hum to himself , produc a sound so strang muffl and inarticul that it seem the mechan hum of the wheel of hi vital in him . receiv the top - maul from starbuck , he advanc toward the main - mast with the hammer uplift in one hand , exhibit the gold with the other , and with a high rais voic exclaim : `` whosoev of ye rais me a white - head whale with a wrinkl brow and a crook jaw ; whosoev of ye rais me that white - head whale , with three hole punctur in hi starboard fluke -- look ye , whosoev of ye rais me that same white whale , he shall have thi gold ounc , my boy ! '' `` huzza ! huzza ! '' cri the seamen , as with swing tarpaulin they hail the act of nail the gold to the mast . `` It ' s a white whale , I say , '' resum ahab , as he threw down the topmaul : `` a white whale . skin your eye for him , men ; look sharp for white water ; if ye see but a bubbl , sing out . '' all thi while tashtego , daggoo , and queequeg had look on with even more intens interest and surpris than the rest , and at the mention of the wrinkl brow and crook jaw they had start as if each wa separ touch by some specif recollect . `` captain ahab , '' said tashtego , `` that white whale must be the same that some call mobi dick . '' `` mobi dick ? '' shout ahab . `` Do ye know the white whale then , tash ? '' `` doe he fan - tail a littl curiou , sir , befor he goe down ? '' said the gay - header deliber . `` and ha he a curiou spout , too , '' said daggoo , `` veri bushi , even for a parmacetti , and mighti quick , captain ahab ? '' `` and he have one , two , three -- oh ! good mani iron in him hide , too , captain , '' cri queequeg disjointedli , `` all twisk - tee be - twisk , like him -- him -- '' falter hard for a word , and screw hi hand round and round as though uncork a bottl -- '' like him -- him -- '' `` corkscrew ! '' cri ahab , `` aye , queequeg , the harpoon lie all twist and wrench in him ; aye , daggoo , hi spout is a big one , like a whole shock of wheat , and white as a pile of our nantucket wool after the great annual sheep - shear ; aye , tashtego , and he fan - tail like a split jib in a squall . death and devil ! men , it is mobi dick ye have seen -- mobi dick -- mobi dick ! '' `` captain ahab , '' said starbuck , who , with stubb and flask , had thu far been eye hi superior with increas surpris , but at last seem struck with a thought which somewhat explain all the wonder . `` captain ahab , I have heard of mobi dick -- but it wa not mobi dick that took off thi leg ? '' `` who told thee that ? '' cri ahab ; then paus , `` aye , starbuck ; aye , my hearti all round ; it wa mobi dick that dismast me ; mobi dick that brought me to thi dead stump I stand on now . aye , aye , '' he shout with a terrif , loud , anim sob , like that of a heart - stricken moos ; `` aye , aye ! it wa that accurs white whale that raze me ; made a poor peg lubber of me for ever and a day ! '' then toss both arm , with measureless imprec he shout out : `` aye , aye ! and I ' ll chase him round good hope , and round the horn , and round the norway maelstrom , and round perdit ' s flame befor I give him up . and thi is what ye have ship for , men ! to chase that white whale on both side of land , and over all side of earth , till he spout black blood and roll fin out . what say ye , men , will ye splice hand on it , now ? I think ye do look brave . '' `` aye , aye ! '' shout the harpoon and seamen , run closer to the excit old man : `` A sharp eye for the white whale ; a sharp lanc for mobi dick ! '' `` god bless ye , '' he seem to half sob and half shout . `` god bless ye , men . steward ! go draw the great measur of grog . but what ' s thi long face about , Mr . starbuck ; wilt thou not chase the white whale ? art not game for mobi dick ? '' `` I am game for hi crook jaw , and for the jaw of death too , captain ahab , if it fairli come in the way of the busi we follow ; but I came here to hunt whale , not my command ' s vengeanc . how mani barrel will thi vengeanc yield thee even if thou gettest it , captain ahab ? it will not fetch thee much in our nantucket market . '' `` nantucket market ! hoot ! but come closer , starbuck ; thou requirest a littl lower layer . If money ' s to be the measur , man , and the account have comput their great count - hous the globe , by girdl it with guinea , one to everi three part of an inch ; then , let me tell thee , that my vengeanc will fetch a great premium here ! '' `` He smite hi chest , '' whisper stubb , `` what ' s that for ? methink it ring most vast , but hollow . '' `` vengeanc on a dumb brute ! '' cri starbuck , `` that simpli smote thee from blindest instinct ! mad ! To be enrag with a dumb thing , captain ahab , seem blasphem . '' `` hark ye yet again -- the littl lower layer . all visibl object , man , are but as pasteboard mask . but in each event -- in the live act , the undoubt deed -- there , some unknown but still reason thing put forth the mould of it featur from behind the unreason mask . If man will strike , strike through the mask ! how can the prison reach outsid except by thrust through the wall ? To me , the white whale is that wall , shove near to me . sometim I think there ' s naught beyond . but ' ti enough . He task me ; he heap me ; I see in him outrag strength , with an inscrut malic sinew it . that inscrut thing is chiefli what I hate ; and be the white whale agent , or be the white whale princip , I will wreak that hate upon him . talk not to me of blasphemi , man ; I ' d strike the sun if it insult me . for could the sun do that , then could I do the other ; sinc there is ever a sort of fair play herein , jealousi presid over all creation . but not my master , man , is even that fair play . who ' s over me ? truth hath no confin . take off thine eye ! more intoler than fiend ' glare is a doltish stare ! So , so ; thou reddenest and palest ; my heat ha melt thee to anger - glow . but look ye , starbuck , what is said in heat , that thing unsay itself . there are men from whom warm word are small indign . I meant not to incens thee . let it go . look ! see yonder turkish cheek of spot tawn -- live , breath pictur paint by the sun . the pagan leopard -- the unreck and unworship thing , that live ; and seek , and give no reason for the torrid life they feel ! the crew , man , the crew ! are they not one and all with ahab , in thi matter of the whale ? see stubb ! he laugh ! see yonder chilian ! he snort to think of it . stand up amid the gener hurrican , thi one tost sapl can not , starbuck ! and what is it ? reckon it . ' ti but to help strike a fin ; no wondrou feat for starbuck . what is it more ? from thi one poor hunt , then , the best lanc out of all nantucket , sure he will not hang back , when everi foremast - hand ha clutch a whetston ? Ah ! constrain seiz thee ; I see ! the billow lift thee ! speak , but speak ! -- aye , aye ! thi silenc , then , that voic thee . ( asid ) someth shot from my dilat nostril , he ha inhal it in hi lung . starbuck now is mine ; can not oppos me now , without rebellion . '' `` god keep me ! -- keep us all ! '' murmur starbuck , lowli . but in hi joy at the enchant , tacit acquiesc of the mate , ahab did not hear hi forebod invoc ; nor yet the low laugh from the hold ; nor yet the presag vibrat of the wind in the cordag ; nor yet the hollow flap of the sail against the mast , as for a moment their heart sank in . for again starbuck ' s downcast eye light up with the stubborn of life ; the subterranean laugh die away ; the wind blew on ; the sail fill out ; the ship heav and roll as befor . Ah , ye admonit and warn ! whi stay ye not when ye come ? but rather are ye predict than warn , ye shadow ! yet not so much predict from without , as verif of the forego thing within . for with littl extern to constrain us , the innermost necess in our be , these still drive us on . `` the measur ! the measur ! '' cri ahab . receiv the brim pewter , and turn to the harpoon , he order them to produc their weapon . then rang them befor him near the capstan , with their harpoon in their hand , while hi three mate stood at hi side with their lanc , and the rest of the ship ' s compani form a circl round the group ; he stood for an instant searchingli eye everi man of hi crew . but those wild eye met hi , as the bloodshot eye of the prairi wolv meet the eye of their leader , ere he rush on at their head in the trail of the bison ; but , ala ! onli to fall into the hidden snare of the indian . `` drink and pass ! '' he cri , hand the heavi charg flagon to the nearest seaman . `` the crew alon now drink . round with it , round ! short draught -- long swallow , men ; ' ti hot as satan ' s hoof . So , so ; it goe round excel . It spiral in ye ; fork out at the serpent - snap eye . well done ; almost drain . that way it went , thi way it come . hand it me -- here ' s a hollow ! men , ye seem the year ; so brim life is gulp and gone . steward , refil ! `` attend now , my brave . I have muster ye all round thi capstan ; and ye mate , flank me with your lanc ; and ye harpoon , stand there with your iron ; and ye , stout marin , ring me in , that I may in some sort reviv a nobl custom of my fisherman father befor me . O men , you will yet see that -- Ha ! boy , come back ? bad penni come not sooner . hand it me . whi , now , thi pewter had run brim again , were ' t not thou St . vitu ' imp -- away , thou agu ! `` advanc , ye mate ! cross your lanc full befor me . well done ! let me touch the axi . '' So say , with extend arm , he grasp the three level , radiat lanc at their cross centr ; while so do , suddenli and nervous twitch them ; meanwhil , glanc intent from starbuck to stubb ; from stubb to flask . It seem as though , by some nameless , interior volit , he would fain have shock into them the same fieri emot accumul within the leyden jar of hi own magnet life . the three mate quail befor hi strong , sustain , and mystic aspect . stubb and flask look sideway from him ; the honest eye of starbuck fell downright . `` In vain ! '' cri ahab ; `` but , mayb , ' ti well . for did ye three but onc take the full - forc shock , then mine own electr thing , that had perhap expir from out me . perchanc , too , it would have drop ye dead . perchanc ye need it not . down lanc ! and now , ye mate , I do appoint ye three cupbear to my three pagan kinsmen there -- yon three most honour gentlemen and noblemen , my valiant harpoon . disdain the task ? what , when the great pope wash the feet of beggar , use hi tiara for ewer ? Oh , my sweet cardin ! your own condescens , that shall bend ye to it . I do not order ye ; ye will it . cut your seiz and draw the pole , ye harpoon ! '' silent obey the order , the three harpoon now stood with the detach iron part of their harpoon , some three feet long , held , barb up , befor him . `` stab me not with that keen steel ! cant them ; cant them over ! know ye not the goblet end ? turn up the socket ! So , so ; now , ye cup - bearer , advanc . the iron ! take them ; hold them while I fill ! '' forthwith , slowli go from one offic to the other , he brim the harpoon socket with the fieri water from the pewter . `` now , three to three , ye stand . commend the murder chalic ! bestow them , ye who are now made parti to thi indissolubl leagu . Ha ! starbuck ! but the deed is done ! yon ratifi sun now wait to sit upon it . drink , ye harpoon ! drink and swear , ye men that man the death whaleboat ' s bow -- death to mobi dick ! god hunt us all , if we do not hunt mobi dick to hi death ! '' the long , barb steel goblet were lift ; and to cri and maledict against the white whale , the spirit were simultan quaf down with a hiss . starbuck pale , and turn , and shiver . onc more , and final , the replenish pewter went the round among the frantic crew ; when , wave hi free hand to them , they all dispers ; and ahab retir within hi cabin . chapter 37 sunset . the cabin ; BY the stern window ; ahab sit alon , and gaze out . I leav a white and turbid wake ; pale water , paler cheek , where ' er I sail . the enviou billow sidelong swell to whelm my track ; let them ; but first I pass . yonder , by ever - brim goblet ' s rim , the warm wave blush like wine . the gold brow plumb the blue . the diver sun -- slow dive from noon -- goe down ; my soul mount up ! she weari with her endless hill . Is , then , the crown too heavi that I wear ? thi iron crown of lombardi . yet is it bright with mani a gem ; I the wearer , see not it far flash ; but darkli feel that I wear that , that dazzlingli confound . ' ti iron -- that I know -- not gold . ' ti split , too -- that I feel ; the jag edg gall me so , my brain seem to beat against the solid metal ; aye , steel skull , mine ; the sort that need no helmet in the most brain - batter fight ! dri heat upon my brow ? Oh ! time wa , when as the sunris nobli spur me , so the sunset sooth . No more . thi love light , it light not me ; all loveli is anguish to me , sinc I can ne ' er enjoy . gift with the high percept , I lack the low , enjoy power ; damn , most subtli and most malignantli ! damn in the midst of paradis ! good night -- good night ! ( wave hi hand , HE move from the window . ) ' twa not so hard a task . I thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cog circl fit into all their variou wheel , and they revolv . Or , if you will , like so mani ant - hill of powder , they all stand befor me ; and I their match . Oh , hard ! that to fire other , the match itself must need be wast ! what I ' ve dare , I ' ve will ; and what I ' ve will , I ' ll do ! they think me mad -- starbuck doe ; but I ' m demoniac , I am mad madden ! that wild mad that ' s onli calm to comprehend itself ! the propheci wa that I should be dismemb ; and -- aye ! I lost thi leg . I now prophesi that I will dismemb my dismember . now , then , be the prophet and the fulfil one . that ' s more than ye , ye great god , ever were . I laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - player , ye pugilist , ye deaf burk and blind bendigo ! I will not say as schoolboy do to bulli -- take some one of your own size ; don ' t pommel ME ! No , ye ' ve knock me down , and I am up again ; but YE have run and hidden . come forth from behind your cotton bag ! I have no long gun to reach ye . come , ahab ' s compliment to ye ; come and see if ye can swerv me . swerv me ? ye can not swerv me , els ye swerv yourselv ! man ha ye there . swerv me ? the path to my fix purpos is laid with iron rail , whereon my soul is groov to run . over unsound gorg , through the rifl heart of mountain , under torrent ' bed , unerringli I rush ! naught ' s an obstacl , naught ' s an angl to the iron way ! chapter 38 dusk . BY the mainmast ; starbuck lean against IT . My soul is more than match ; she ' s overman ; and by a madman ! insuffer sting , that saniti should ground arm on such a field ! but he drill deep down , and blast all my reason out of me ! I think I see hi impiou end ; but feel that I must help him to it . will I , nill I , the ineff thing ha tie me to him ; tow me with a cabl I have no knife to cut . horribl old man ! who ' s over him , he cri ; -- aye , he would be a democrat to all abov ; look , how he lord it over all below ! Oh ! I plainli see my miser offic , -- to obey , rebel ; and wors yet , to hate with touch of piti ! for in hi eye I read some lurid woe would shrivel me up , had I it . yet is there hope . time and tide flow wide . the hate whale ha the round wateri world to swim in , as the small gold - fish ha it glassi globe . hi heaven - insult purpos , god may wedg asid . I would up heart , were it not like lead . but my whole clock ' s run down ; my heart the all - control weight , I have no key to lift again . [ A burst OF revelri from the forecastl . ] Oh , god ! to sail with such a heathen crew that have small touch of human mother in them ! whelp somewher by the sharkish sea . the white whale is their demigorgon . hark ! the infern orgi ! that revelri is forward ! mark the unfalt silenc aft ! methink it pictur life . foremost through the sparkl sea shoot on the gay , embattl , banter bow , but onli to drag dark ahab after it , where he brood within hi sternward cabin , build over the dead water of the wake , and further on , hunt by it wolfish gurgl . the long howl thrill me through ! peac ! ye revel , and set the watch ! Oh , life ! ' ti in an hour like thi , with soul beat down and held to knowledg , -- as wild , untutor thing are forc to feed -- Oh , life ! ' ti now that I do feel the latent horror in thee ! but ' ti not me ! that horror ' s out of me ! and with the soft feel of the human in me , yet will I tri to fight ye , ye grim , phantom futur ! stand by me , hold me , bind me , O ye bless influenc ! chapter 39 first night watch . fore - top . ( stubb solu , and mend A brace . ) Ha ! ha ! ha ! ha ! hem ! clear my throat ! -- I ' ve been think over it ever sinc , and that ha , ha ' s the final consequ . whi so ? becaus a laugh ' s the wisest , easiest answer to all that ' s queer ; and come what will , one comfort ' s alway left -- that unfail comfort is , it ' s all predestin . I heard not all hi talk with starbuck ; but to my poor eye starbuck then look someth as I the other even felt . Be sure the old mogul ha fix him , too . I twig it , knew it ; had had the gift , might readili have prophesi it -- for when I clap my eye upon hi skull I saw it . well , stubb , wise stubb -- that ' s my titl -- well , stubb , what of it , stubb ? here ' s a carcas . I know not all that may be come , but be it what it will , I ' ll go to it laugh . such a waggish leer as lurk in all your horribl ! I feel funni . Fa , la ! lirra , skirra ! what ' s my juici littl pear at home do now ? cri it eye out ? -- give a parti to the last arriv harpoon , I dare say , gay as a frigat ' s pennant , and so am I -- fa , la ! lirra , skirra ! Oh -- We ' ll drink to - night with heart as light , To love , as gay and fleet As bubbl that swim , on the beaker ' s brim , and break on the lip while meet . A brave stave that -- who call ? Mr . starbuck ? aye , aye , sir -- ( asid ) he ' s my superior , he ha hi too , if I ' m not mistaken . -- aye , aye , sir , just through with thi job -- come . chapter 40 midnight , forecastl . harpoon and sailor . ( foresail rise and discov the watch stand , loung , lean , and ly IN variou attitud , all sing IN choru . ) farewel and adieu to you , spanish ladi ! farewel and adieu to you , ladi of spain ! our captain ' s command . -- 1st nantucket sailor . Oh , boy , don ' t be sentiment ; it ' s bad for the digest ! take a tonic , follow me ! ( sing , and all follow ) our captain stood upon the deck , A spi - glass in hi hand , A view of those gallant whale that blew at everi strand . Oh , your tub in your boat , my boy , and by your brace stand , and we ' ll have one of those fine whale , hand , boy , over hand ! So , be cheeri , my lad ! may your heart never fail ! while the bold harpoon is strike the whale ! mate ' S voic from the quarter - deck . eight bell there , forward ! 2nd nantucket sailor . avast the choru ! eight bell there ! d ' ye hear , bell - boy ? strike the bell eight , thou pip ! thou blackl ! and let me call the watch . I ' ve the sort of mouth for that -- the hogshead mouth . So , so , ( thrust hi head down the scuttl , ) star - bo - l - e - e - n - s , a - h - o - y ! eight bell there below ! tumbl up ! dutch sailor . grand snooz to - night , mati ; fat night for that . I mark thi in our old mogul ' s wine ; it ' s quit as deaden to some as fillip to other . We sing ; they sleep -- aye , lie down there , like ground - tier butt . At ' em again ! there , take thi copper - pump , and hail ' em through it . tell ' em to avast dream of their lass . tell ' em it ' s the resurrect ; they must kiss their last , and come to judgment . that ' s the way -- that ' S it ; thi throat ain ' t spoil with eat amsterdam butter . french sailor . hist , boy ! let ' s have a jig or two befor we ride to anchor in blanket bay . what say ye ? there come the other watch . stand by all leg ! pip ! littl pip ! hurrah with your tambourin ! pip . ( sulki and sleepi ) don ' t know where it is . french sailor . beat thi belli , then , and wag thi ear . jig it , men , I say ; merri ' s the word ; hurrah ! damn me , won ' t you danc ? form , now , indian - file , and gallop into the doubl - shuffl ? throw yourselv ! leg ! leg ! iceland sailor . I don ' t like your floor , mati ; it ' s too springi to my tast . I ' m use to ice - floor . I ' m sorri to throw cold water on the subject ; but excus me . maltes sailor . Me too ; where ' s your girl ? who but a fool would take hi left hand by hi right , and say to himself , how d ' ye do ? partner ! I must have partner ! sicilian sailor . aye ; girl and a green ! -- then I ' ll hop with ye ; yea , turn grasshopp ! long - island sailor . well , well , ye sulki , there ' s plenti more of us . hoe corn when you may , say I . all leg go to harvest soon . Ah ! here come the music ; now for it ! azor sailor . ( ascend , and pitch the tambourin UP the scuttl . ) here you are , pip ; and there ' s the windlass - bitt ; up you mount ! now , boy ! ( the half OF them danc TO the tambourin ; some GO below ; some sleep OR lie among the coil OF rig . oath A - plenti . ) azor sailor . ( danc ) Go it , pip ! bang it , bell - boy ! rig it , dig it , stig it , quig it , bell - boy ! make fire - fli ; break the jingler ! pip . jingler , you say ? -- there goe anoth , drop off ; I pound it so . china sailor . rattl thi teeth , then , and pound away ; make a pagoda of thyself . french sailor . merri - mad ! hold up thi hoop , pip , till I jump through it ! split jib ! tear yourselv ! tashtego . ( quietli smoke ) that ' s a white man ; he call that fun : humph ! I save my sweat . old manx sailor . I wonder whether those jolli lad bethink them of what they are danc over . I ' ll danc over your grave , I will -- that ' s the bitterest threat of your night - women , that beat head - wind round corner . O christ ! to think of the green navi and the green - skull crew ! well , well ; belik the whole world ' s a ball , as you scholar have it ; and so ' ti right to make one ballroom of it . danc on , lad , you ' re young ; I wa onc . 3D nantucket sailor . spell oh ! -- whew ! thi is wors than pull after whale in a calm -- give us a whiff , tash . ( they ceas danc , and gather IN cluster . meantim the ski darken -- the wind rise . ) lascar sailor . By brahma ! boy , it ' ll be dous sail soon . the sky - born , high - tide gang turn to wind ! thou showest thi black brow , seeva ! maltes sailor . ( reclin and shake hi cap . ) It ' s the wave -- the snow ' s cap turn to jig it now . they ' ll shake their tassel soon . now would all the wave were women , then I ' d go drown , and chasse with them evermor ! there ' s naught so sweet on earth -- heaven may not match it ! -- as those swift glanc of warm , wild bosom in the danc , when the over - arbor arm hide such ripe , burst grape . sicilian sailor . ( reclin . ) tell me not of it ! hark ye , lad -- fleet interlac of the limb -- lith sway -- coy -- flutter ! lip ! heart ! hip ! all graze : unceas touch and go ! not tast , observ ye , els come satieti . Eh , pagan ? ( nudg . ) tahitan sailor . ( reclin ON A mat . ) hail , holi naked of our danc girl ! -- the heeva - heeva ! Ah ! low veil , high palm tahiti ! I still rest me on thi mat , but the soft soil ha slid ! I saw thee woven in the wood , my mat ! green the first day I brought ye thenc ; now worn and wilt quit . Ah me ! -- not thou nor I can bear the chang ! how then , if so be transplant to yon sky ? hear I the roar stream from pirohite ' s peak of spear , when they leap down the crag and drown the villag ? -- the blast ! the blast ! Up , spine , and meet it ! ( leap TO hi feet . ) portugues sailor . how the sea roll swash ' gainst the side ! stand by for reef , hearti ! the wind are just cross sword , pell - mell they ' ll go lung present . danish sailor . crack , crack , old ship ! so long as thou crackest , thou holdest ! well done ! the mate there hold ye to it stiffli . He ' s no more afraid than the isl fort at cattegat , put there to fight the baltic with storm - lash gun , on which the sea - salt cake ! 4th nantucket sailor . He ha hi order , mind ye that . I heard old ahab tell him he must alway kill a squall , someth as they burst a waterspout with a pistol -- fire your ship right into it ! english sailor . blood ! but that old man ' s a grand old cove ! We are the lad to hunt him up hi whale ! all . aye ! aye ! old manx sailor . how the three pine shake ! pine are the hardest sort of tree to live when shift to ani other soil , and here there ' s none but the crew ' s curs clay . steadi , helmsman ! steadi . thi is the sort of weather when brave heart snap ashor , and keel hull split at sea . our captain ha hi birthmark ; look yonder , boy , there ' s anoth in the sky -- lurid - like , ye see , all els pitch black . daggoo . what of that ? who ' s afraid of black ' s afraid of me ! I ' m quarri out of it ! spanish sailor . ( asid . ) He want to bulli , ah ! -- the old grudg make me touchi ( advanc . ) aye , harpoon , thi race is the undeni dark side of mankind -- devilish dark at that . No offenc . daggoo ( grimli ) . none . ST . jago ' S sailor . that spaniard ' s mad or drunk . but that can ' t be , or els in hi one case our old mogul ' s fire - water are somewhat long in work . 5th nantucket sailor . what ' s that I saw -- lightn ? ye . spanish sailor . No ; daggoo show hi teeth . daggoo ( spring ) . swallow thine , mannikin ! white skin , white liver ! spanish sailor ( meet him ) . knife thee heartili ! big frame , small spirit ! all . A row ! a row ! a row ! tashtego ( with A whiff ) . A row a ' low , and a row aloft -- god and men -- both brawler ! humph ! belfast sailor . A row ! arrah a row ! the virgin be bless , a row ! plung in with ye ! english sailor . fair play ! snatch the spaniard ' s knife ! A ring , a ring ! old manx sailor . readi form . there ! the ring horizon . In that ring cain struck abel . sweet work , right work ! No ? whi then , god , mad ' st thou the ring ? mate ' S voic from the quarter - deck . hand by the halyard ! in top - gallant sail ! stand by to reef topsail ! all . the squall ! the squall ! jump , my jolli ! ( they scatter . ) pip ( shrink under the windlass ) . jolli ? lord help such jolli ! crish , crash ! there goe the jib - stay ! blang - whang ! god ! duck lower , pip , here come the royal yard ! It ' s wors than be in the whirl wood , the last day of the year ! who ' d go climb after chestnut now ? but there they go , all curs , and here I don ' t . fine prospect to ' em ; they ' re on the road to heaven . hold on hard ! jimmini , what a squall ! but those chap there are wors yet -- they are your white squall , they . white squall ? white whale , shirr ! shirr ! here have I heard all their chat just now , and the white whale -- shirr ! shirr ! -- but spoken of onc ! and onli thi even -- it make me jingl all over like my tambourin -- that anaconda of an old man swore ' em in to hunt him ! Oh , thou big white god aloft there somewher in yon dark , have merci on thi small black boy down here ; preserv him from all men that have no bowel to feel fear ! chapter 41 mobi dick . I , ishmael , wa one of that crew ; my shout had gone up with the rest ; my oath had been weld with their ; and stronger I shout , and more did I hammer and clinch my oath , becaus of the dread in my soul . A wild , mystic , sympathet feel wa in me ; ahab ' s quenchless feud seem mine . with greedi ear I learn the histori of that murder monster against whom I and all the other had taken our oath of violenc and reveng . for some time past , though at interv onli , the unaccompani , seclud white whale had haunt those uncivil sea mostli frequent by the sperm whale fishermen . but not all of them knew of hi exist ; onli a few of them , compar , had knowingli seen him ; while the number who as yet had actual and knowingli given battl to him , wa small inde . for , owe to the larg number of whale - cruiser ; the disorderli way they were sprinkl over the entir wateri circumfer , mani of them adventur push their quest along solitari latitud , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encount a singl news - tell sail of ani sort ; the inordin length of each separ voyag ; the irregular of the time of sail from home ; all these , with other circumst , direct and indirect , long obstruct the spread through the whole world - wide whale - fleet of the special individu tide concern mobi dick . It wa hardli to be doubt , that sever vessel report to have encount , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a sperm whale of uncommon magnitud and malign , which whale , after do great mischief to hi assail , had complet escap them ; to some mind it wa not an unfair presumpt , I say , that the whale in question must have been no other than mobi dick . yet as of late the sperm whale fisheri had been mark by variou and not unfrequ instanc of great feroc , cun , and malic in the monster attack ; therefor it wa , that those who by accid ignorantli gave battl to mobi dick ; such hunter , perhap , for the most part , were content to ascrib the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to the peril of the sperm whale fisheri at larg , than to the individu caus . In that way , mostli , the disastr encount between ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularli regard . and as for those who , previous hear of the white whale , by chanc caught sight of him ; in the begin of the thing they had everi one of them , almost , as boldli and fearlessli lower for him , as for ani other whale of that speci . but at length , such calam did ensu in these assault -- not restrict to sprain wrist and ankl , broken limb , or devour amput -- but fatal to the last degre of fatal ; those repeat disastr repuls , all accumul and pile their terror upon mobi dick ; those thing had gone far to shake the fortitud of mani brave hunter , to whom the stori of the white whale had eventu come . nor did wild rumor of all sort fail to exagger , and still the more horrifi the true histori of these deadli encount . for not onli do fabul rumor natur grow out of the veri bodi of all surpris terribl event , -- as the smitten tree give birth to it fungi ; but , in maritim life , far more than in that of terra firma , wild rumor abound , wherev there is ani adequ realiti for them to cling to . and as the sea surpass the land in thi matter , so the whale fisheri surpass everi other sort of maritim life , in the wonder and fear of the rumor which sometim circul there . for not onli are whalemen as a bodi unexempt from that ignor and superstiti hereditari to all sailor ; but of all sailor , they are by all odd the most directli brought into contact with whatev is appallingli astonish in the sea ; face to face they not onli eye it greatest marvel , but , hand to jaw , give battl to them . alon , in such remotest water , that though you sail a thousand mile , and pass a thousand shore , you would not come to ani chisel hearth - stone , or aught hospit beneath that part of the sun ; in such latitud and longitud , pursu too such a call as he doe , the whaleman is wrap by influenc all tend to make hi fanci pregnant with mani a mighti birth . No wonder , then , that ever gather volum from the mere transit over the widest wateri space , the outblown rumor of the white whale did in the end incorpor with themselv all manner of morbid hint , and half - form foetal suggest of supernatur agenc , which eventu invest mobi dick with new terror unborrow from anyth that visibl appear . So that in mani case such a panic did he final strike , that few who by those rumor , at least , had heard of the white whale , few of those hunter were will to encount the peril of hi jaw . but there were still other and more vital practic influenc at work . not even at the present day ha the origin prestig of the sperm whale , as fear distinguish from all other speci of the leviathan , die out of the mind of the whalemen as a bodi . there are those thi day among them , who , though intellig and courag enough in offer battl to the greenland or right whale , would perhap -- either from profession inexperi , or incompet , or timid , declin a contest with the sperm whale ; at ani rate , there are plenti of whalemen , especi among those whale nation not sail under the american flag , who have never hostil encount the sperm whale , but whose sole knowledg of the leviathan is restrict to the ignobl monster primit pursu in the north ; seat on their hatch , these men will hearken with a childish firesid interest and awe , to the wild , strang tale of southern whale . nor is the pre - emin tremend of the great sperm whale anywher more feelingli comprehend , than on board of those prow which stem him . and as if the now test realiti of hi might had in former legendari time thrown it shadow befor it ; we find some book naturalist -- olassen and povelson -- declar the sperm whale not onli to be a constern to everi other creatur in the sea , but also to be so incred feroci as continu to be athirst for human blood . nor even down to so late a time as cuvier ' s , were these or almost similar impress effac . for in hi natur histori , the baron himself affirm that at sight of the sperm whale , all fish ( shark includ ) are `` struck with the most live terror , '' and `` often in the precipit of their flight dash themselv against the rock with such violenc as to caus instantan death . '' and howev the gener experi in the fisheri may amend such report as these ; yet in their full terribl , even to the bloodthirsti item of povelson , the superstiti belief in them is , in some vicissitud of their vocat , reviv in the mind of the hunter . So that overaw by the rumor and portent concern him , not a few of the fishermen recal , in refer to mobi dick , the earlier day of the sperm whale fisheri , when it wa oftentim hard to induc long practis right whalemen to embark in the peril of thi new and dare warfar ; such men protest that although other leviathan might be hope pursu , yet to chase and point lanc at such an apparit as the sperm whale wa not for mortal man . that to attempt it , would be inevit to be torn into a quick etern . On thi head , there are some remark document that may be consult . nevertheless , some there were , who even in the face of these thing were readi to give chase to mobi dick ; and a still greater number who , chanc onli to hear of him distantli and vagu , without the specif detail of ani certain calam , and without superstiti accompani , were suffici hardi not to flee from the battl if offer . one of the wild suggest refer to , as at last come to be link with the white whale in the mind of the superstiti inclin , wa the unearthli conceit that mobi dick wa ubiquit ; that he had actual been encount in opposit latitud at one and the same instant of time . nor , credul as such mind must have been , wa thi conceit altogeth without some faint show of superstiti probabl . for as the secret of the current in the sea have never yet been divulg , even to the most erudit research ; so the hidden way of the sperm whale when beneath the surfac remain , in great part , unaccount to hi pursuer ; and from time to time have origin the most curiou and contradictori specul regard them , especi concern the mystic mode wherebi , after sound to a great depth , he transport himself with such vast swift to the most wide distant point . It is a thing well known to both american and english whale - ship , and as well a thing place upon authorit record year ago by scoresbi , that some whale have been captur far north in the pacif , in whose bodi have been found the barb of harpoon dart in the greenland sea . nor is it to be gainsaid , that in some of these instanc it ha been declar that the interv of time between the two assault could not have exceed veri mani day . henc , by infer , it ha been believ by some whalemen , that the nor ' west passag , so long a problem to man , wa never a problem to the whale . So that here , in the real live experi of live men , the prodigi relat in old time of the inland strello mountain in portug ( near whose top there wa said to be a lake in which the wreck of ship float up to the surfac ) ; and that still more wonder stori of the arethusa fountain near syracus ( whose water were believ to have come from the holi land by an underground passag ) ; these fabul narrat are almost fulli equal by the realiti of the whalemen . forc into familiar , then , with such prodigi as these ; and know that after repeat , intrepid assault , the white whale had escap aliv ; it can not be much matter of surpris that some whalemen should go still further in their superstit ; declar mobi dick not onli ubiquit , but immort ( for immort is but ubiqu in time ) ; that though grove of spear should be plant in hi flank , he would still swim away unharm ; or if inde he should ever be made to spout thick blood , such a sight would be but a ghastli decept ; for again in unensanguin billow hundr of leagu away , hi unsulli jet would onc more be seen . but even strip of these supernatur surmis , there wa enough in the earthli make and incontest charact of the monster to strike the imagin with unwont power . for , it wa not so much hi uncommon bulk that so much distinguish him from other sperm whale , but , as wa elsewher thrown out -- a peculiar snow - white wrinkl forehead , and a high , pyramid white hump . these were hi promin featur ; the token wherebi , even in the limitless , unchart sea , he reveal hi ident , at a long distanc , to those who knew him . the rest of hi bodi wa so streak , and spot , and marbl with the same shroud hue , that , in the end , he had gain hi distinct appel of the white whale ; a name , inde , liter justifi by hi vivid aspect , when seen glide at high noon through a dark blue sea , leav a milki - way wake of creami foam , all spangl with golden gleam . nor wa it hi unwont magnitud , nor hi remark hue , nor yet hi deform lower jaw , that so much invest the whale with natur terror , as that unexampl , intellig malign which , accord to specif account , he had over and over again evinc in hi assault . more than all , hi treacher retreat struck more of dismay than perhap aught els . for , when swim befor hi exult pursuer , with everi appar symptom of alarm , he had sever time been known to turn round suddenli , and , bear down upon them , either stave their boat to splinter , or drive them back in constern to their ship . alreadi sever fatal had attend hi chase . but though similar disast , howev littl bruit ashor , were by no mean unusu in the fisheri ; yet , in most instanc , such seem the white whale ' s infern aforethought of feroc , that everi dismemb or death that he caus , wa not wholli regard as have been inflict by an unintellig agent . judg , then , to what pitch of inflam , distract furi the mind of hi more desper hunter were impel , when amid the chip of chew boat , and the sink limb of torn comrad , they swam out of the white curd of the whale ' s dire wrath into the seren , exasper sunlight , that smile on , as if at a birth or a bridal . hi three boat stove around him , and oar and men both whirl in the eddi ; one captain , seiz the line - knife from hi broken prow , had dash at the whale , as an arkansa duellist at hi foe , blindli seek with a six inch blade to reach the fathom - deep life of the whale . that captain wa ahab . and then it wa , that suddenli sweep hi sickl - shape lower jaw beneath him , mobi dick had reap away ahab ' s leg , as a mower a blade of grass in the field . No turban turk , no hire venetian or malay , could have smote him with more seem malic . small reason wa there to doubt , then , that ever sinc that almost fatal encount , ahab had cherish a wild vindict against the whale , all the more fell for that in hi frantic morbid he at last came to identifi with him , not onli all hi bodili woe , but all hi intellectu and spiritu exasper . the white whale swam befor him as the monomaniac incarn of all those malici agenc which some deep men feel eat in them , till they are left live on with half a heart and half a lung . that intang malign which ha been from the begin ; to whose dominion even the modern christian ascrib one - half of the world ; which the ancient ophit of the east reverenc in their statu devil ; -- ahab did not fall down and worship it like them ; but deliri transfer it idea to the abhor white whale , he pit himself , all mutil , against it . all that most madden and torment ; all that stir up the lee of thing ; all truth with malic in it ; all that crack the sinew and cake the brain ; all the subtl demon of life and thought ; all evil , to crazi ahab , were visibl personifi , and made practic assail in mobi dick . He pile upon the whale ' s white hump the sum of all the gener rage and hate felt by hi whole race from adam down ; and then , as if hi chest had been a mortar , he burst hi hot heart ' s shell upon it . It is not probabl that thi monomania in him took it instant rise at the precis time of hi bodili dismember . then , in dart at the monster , knife in hand , he had but given loos to a sudden , passion , corpor animos ; and when he receiv the stroke that tore him , he probabl but felt the agon bodili lacer , but noth more . yet , when by thi collis forc to turn toward home , and for long month of day and week , ahab and anguish lay stretch togeth in one hammock , round in mid winter that dreari , howl patagonian cape ; then it wa , that hi torn bodi and gash soul bled into one anoth ; and so interfus , made him mad . that it wa onli then , on the homeward voyag , after the encount , that the final monomania seiz him , seem all but certain from the fact that , at interv dure the passag , he wa a rave lunat ; and , though unlimb of a leg , yet such vital strength yet lurk in hi egyptian chest , and wa moreov intensifi by hi delirium , that hi mate were forc to lace him fast , even there , as he sail , rave in hi hammock . In a strait - jacket , he swung to the mad rock of the gale . and , when run into more suffer latitud , the ship , with mild stun ' sail spread , float across the tranquil tropic , and , to all appear , the old man ' s delirium seem left behind him with the cape horn swell , and he came forth from hi dark den into the bless light and air ; even then , when he bore that firm , collect front , howev pale , and issu hi calm order onc again ; and hi mate thank god the dire mad wa now gone ; even then , ahab , in hi hidden self , rave on . human mad is oftentim a cun and most felin thing . when you think it fled , it may have but becom transfigur into some still subtler form . ahab ' s full lunaci subsid not , but deepeningli contract ; like the unab hudson , when that nobl northman flow narrowli , but unfathom through the highland gorg . but , as in hi narrow - flow monomania , not one jot of ahab ' s broad mad had been left behind ; so in that broad mad , not one jot of hi great natur intellect had perish . that befor live agent , now becam the live instrument . If such a furiou trope may stand , hi special lunaci storm hi gener saniti , and carri it , and turn all it concentr cannon upon it own mad mark ; so that far from have lost hi strength , ahab , to that one end , did now possess a thousand fold more potenc than ever he had sane brought to bear upon ani one reason object . thi is much ; yet ahab ' s larger , darker , deeper part remain unhint . but vain to popular profund , and all truth is profound . wind far down from within the veri heart of thi spike hotel de cluni where we here stand -- howev grand and wonder , now quit it ; -- and take your way , ye nobler , sadder soul , to those vast roman hall of therm ; where far beneath the fantast tower of man ' s upper earth , hi root of grandeur , hi whole aw essenc sit in beard state ; an antiqu buri beneath antiqu , and throne on torso ! So with a broken throne , the great god mock that captiv king ; so like a caryatid , he patient sit , uphold on hi frozen brow the pile entablatur of age . wind ye down there , ye prouder , sadder soul ! question that proud , sad king ! A famili like ! aye , he did beget ye , ye young exil royalti ; and from your grim sire onli will the old state - secret come . now , in hi heart , ahab had some glimps of thi , name : all my mean are sane , my motiv and my object mad . yet without power to kill , or chang , or shun the fact ; he likewis knew that to mankind he did long dissembl ; in some sort , did still . but that thing of hi dissembl wa onli subject to hi percept , not to hi will determin . nevertheless , so well did he succeed in that dissembl , that when with ivori leg he step ashor at last , no nantucket thought him otherwis than but natur griev , and that to the quick , with the terribl casualti which had overtaken him . the report of hi undeni delirium at sea wa likewis popularli ascrib to a kindr caus . and so too , all the ad moodi which alway afterward , to the veri day of sail in the pequod on the present voyag , sat brood on hi brow . nor is it so veri unlik , that far from distrust hi fit for anoth whale voyag , on account of such dark symptom , the calcul peopl of that prudent isl were inclin to harbor the conceit , that for those veri reason he wa all the better qualifi and set on edg , for a pursuit so full of rage and wild as the bloodi hunt of whale . gnaw within and scorch without , with the infix , unrel fang of some incur idea ; such an one , could he be found , would seem the veri man to dart hi iron and lift hi lanc against the most appal of all brute . Or , if for ani reason thought to be corpor incapacit for that , yet such an one would seem superl compet to cheer and howl on hi underl to the attack . but be all thi as it may , certain it is , that with the mad secret of hi unab rage bolt up and key in him , ahab had purpos sail upon the present voyag with the one onli and all - engross object of hunt the white whale . had ani one of hi old acquaint on shore but half dream of what wa lurk in him then , how soon would their aghast and righteou soul have wrench the ship from such a fiendish man ! they were bent on profit cruis , the profit to be count down in dollar from the mint . He wa intent on an audaci , immitig , and supernatur reveng . here , then , wa thi grey - head , ungodli old man , chase with curs a job ' s whale round the world , at the head of a crew , too , chiefli made up of mongrel renegad , and castaway , and cannib -- moral enfeebl also , by the incompet of mere unaid virtu or right - minded in starbuck , the invuner jolliti of indiffer and reckless in stubb , and the pervad mediocr in flask . such a crew , so offic , seem special pick and pack by some infern fatal to help him to hi monomaniac reveng . how it wa that they so aboundingli respond to the old man ' s ire -- by what evil magic their soul were possess , that at time hi hate seem almost their ; the white whale as much their insuffer foe as hi ; how all thi came to be -- what the white whale wa to them , or how to their unconsci understand , also , in some dim , unsuspect way , he might have seem the glide great demon of the sea of life , -- all thi to explain , would be to dive deeper than ishmael can go . the subterranean miner that work in us all , how can one tell whither lead hi shaft by the ever shift , muffl sound of hi pick ? who doe not feel the irresist arm drag ? what skiff in tow of a seventi - four can stand still ? for one , I gave myself up to the abandon of the time and the place ; but while yet all a - rush to encount the whale , could see naught in that brute but the deadliest ill . chapter 42 the white of the whale . what the white whale wa to ahab , ha been hint ; what , at time , he wa to me , as yet remain unsaid . asid from those more obviou consider touch mobi dick , which could not but occasion awaken in ani man ' s soul some alarm , there wa anoth thought , or rather vagu , nameless horror concern him , which at time by it intens complet overpow all the rest ; and yet so mystic and well nigh ineff wa it , that I almost despair of put it in a comprehens form . It wa the white of the whale that abov all thing appal me . but how can I hope to explain myself here ; and yet , in some dim , random way , explain myself I must , els all these chapter might be naught . though in mani natur object , white refiningli enhanc beauti , as if impart some special virtu of it own , as in marbl , japonica , and pearl ; and though variou nation have in some way recognis a certain royal preemin in thi hue ; even the barbar , grand old king of pegu place the titl `` lord of the white eleph `` abov all their other magniloqu ascript of dominion ; and the modern king of siam unfurl the same snow - white quadrup in the royal standard ; and the hanoverian flag bear the one figur of a snow - white charger ; and the great austrian empir , caesarian , heir to overlord rome , have for the imperi colour the same imperi hue ; and though thi pre - emin in it appli to the human race itself , give the white man ideal mastership over everi duski tribe ; and though , besid , all thi , white ha been even made signific of glad , for among the roman a white stone mark a joy day ; and though in other mortal sympathi and symbol , thi same hue is made the emblem of mani touch , nobl thing -- the innoc of bride , the benign of age ; though among the red men of america the give of the white belt of wampum wa the deepest pledg of honour ; though in mani clime , white typifi the majesti of justic in the ermin of the judg , and contribut to the daili state of king and queen drawn by milk - white steed ; though even in the higher mysteri of the most august religion it ha been made the symbol of the divin spotless and power ; by the persian fire worshipp , the white fork flame be held the holiest on the altar ; and in the greek mytholog , great jove himself be made incarn in a snow - white bull ; and though to the nobl iroquoi , the midwint sacrific of the sacr white dog wa by far the holiest festiv of their theolog , that spotless , faith creatur be held the purest envoy they could send to the great spirit with the annual tide of their own fidel ; and though directli from the latin word for white , all christian priest deriv the name of one part of their sacr vestur , the alb or tunic , worn beneath the cassock ; and though among the holi pomp of the romish faith , white is special employ in the celebr of the passion of our lord ; though in the vision of St . john , white robe are given to the redeem , and the four - and - twenti elder stand cloth in white befor the great - white throne , and the holi one that sitteth there white like wool ; yet for all these accumul associ , with whatev is sweet , and honour , and sublim , there yet lurk an elus someth in the innermost idea of thi hue , which strike more of panic to the soul than that red which affright in blood . thi elus qualiti it is , which caus the thought of white , when divorc from more kindli associ , and coupl with ani object terribl in itself , to heighten that terror to the furthest bound . wit the white bear of the pole , and the white shark of the tropic ; what but their smooth , flaki white make them the transcend horror they are ? that ghastli white it is which impart such an abhorr mild , even more loathsom than terrif , to the dumb gloat of their aspect . So that not the fierc - fang tiger in hi herald coat can so stagger courag as the white - shroud bear or shark . * * with refer to the polar bear , it may possibl be urg by him who would fain go still deeper into thi matter , that it is not the white , separ regard , which heighten the intoler hideous of that brute ; for , analys , that heighten hideous , it might be said , onli rise from the circumst , that the irrespons feroci of the creatur stand invest in the fleec of celesti innoc and love ; and henc , by bring togeth two such opposit emot in our mind , the polar bear frighten us with so unnatur a contrast . but even assum all thi to be true ; yet , were it not for the white , you would not have that intensifi terror . As for the white shark , the white glide ghostli of repos in that creatur , when beheld in hi ordinari mood , strang talli with the same qualiti in the polar quadrup . thi peculiar is most vividli hit by the french in the name they bestow upon that fish . the romish mass for the dead begin with `` requiem eternam `` ( etern rest ) , whenc requiem denomin the mass itself , and ani other funer music . now , in allus to the white , silent still of death in thi shark , and the mild deadli of hi habit , the french call him requin . bethink thee of the albatross , whenc come those cloud of spiritu wonder and pale dread , in which that white phantom sail in all imagin ? not coleridg first threw that spell ; but god ' s great , unflatt laureat , natur . * * I rememb the first albatross I ever saw . It wa dure a prolong gale , in water hard upon the antarct sea . from my forenoon watch below , I ascend to the overcloud deck ; and there , dash upon the main hatch , I saw a regal , featheri thing of unspot white , and with a hook , roman bill sublim . At interv , it arch forth it vast archangel wing , as if to embrac some holi ark . wondrou flutter and throb shook it . though bodili unharm , it utter cri , as some king ' s ghost in supernatur distress . through it inexpress , strang eye , methought I peep to secret which took hold of god . As abraham befor the angel , I bow myself ; the white thing wa so white , it wing so wide , and in those for ever exil water , I had lost the miser warp memori of tradit and of town . long I gaze at that prodigi of plumag . I can not tell , can onli hint , the thing that dart through me then . but at last I awok ; and turn , ask a sailor what bird wa thi . A goney , he repli . goney ! never had heard that name befor ; is it conceiv that thi gloriou thing is utterli unknown to men ashor ! never ! but some time after , I learn that goney wa some seaman ' s name for albatross . So that by no possibl could coleridg ' s wild rhyme have had aught to do with those mystic impress which were mine , when I saw that bird upon our deck . for neither had I then read the rhyme , nor knew the bird to be an albatross . yet , in say thi , I do but indirectli burnish a littl brighter the nobl merit of the poem and the poet . I assert , then , that in the wondrou bodili white of the bird chiefli lurk the secret of the spell ; a truth the more evinc in thi , that by a solec of term there are bird call grey albatross ; and these I have frequent seen , but never with such emot as when I beheld the antarct fowl . but how had the mystic thing been caught ? whisper it not , and I will tell ; with a treacher hook and line , as the fowl float on the sea . At last the captain made a postman of it ; tie a letter , leathern talli round it neck , with the ship ' s time and place ; and then let it escap . but I doubt not , that leathern talli , meant for man , wa taken off in heaven , when the white fowl flew to join the wing - fold , the invok , and ador cherubim ! most famou in our western annal and indian tradit is that of the white steed of the prairi ; a magnific milk - white charger , larg - eye , small - head , bluff - chest , and with the digniti of a thousand monarch in hi lofti , overscorn carriag . He wa the elect xerx of vast herd of wild hors , whose pastur in those day were onli fenc by the rocki mountain and the alleghani . At their flame head he westward troop it like that chosen star which everi even lead on the host of light . the flash cascad of hi mane , the curv comet of hi tail , invest him with hous more resplend than gold and silver - beater could have furnish him . A most imperi and archangel apparit of that unfallen , western world , which to the eye of the old trapper and hunter reviv the glori of those primev time when adam walk majest as a god , bluff - brow and fearless as thi mighti steed . whether march amid hi aid and marshal in the van of countless cohort that endlessli stream it over the plain , like an ohio ; or whether with hi circumambi subject brows all around at the horizon , the white steed gallopingli review them with warm nostril redden through hi cool milki ; in whatev aspect he present himself , alway to the bravest indian he wa the object of trembl rever and awe . nor can it be question from what stand on legendari record of thi nobl hors , that it wa hi spiritu white chiefli , which so cloth him with divin ; and that thi divin had that in it which , though command worship , at the same time enforc a certain nameless terror . but there are other instanc where thi white lose all that accessori and strang glori which invest it in the white steed and albatross . what is it that in the albino man so peculiarli repel and often shock the eye , as that sometim he is loath by hi own kith and kin ! It is that white which invest him , a thing express by the name he bear . the albino is as well made as other men -- ha no substant deform -- and yet thi mere aspect of all - pervad white make him more strang hideou than the ugliest abort . whi should thi be so ? nor , in quit other aspect , doe natur in her least palpabl but not the less malici agenc , fail to enlist among her forc thi crown attribut of the terribl . from it snowi aspect , the gauntlet ghost of the southern sea ha been denomin the white squall . nor , in some histor instanc , ha the art of human malic omit so potent an auxiliari . how wildli it heighten the effect of that passag in froissart , when , mask in the snowi symbol of their faction , the desper white hood of ghent murder their bailiff in the market - place ! nor , in some thing , doe the common , hereditari experi of all mankind fail to bear wit to the supernatur of thi hue . It can not well be doubt , that the one visibl qualiti in the aspect of the dead which most appal the gazer , is the marbl pallor linger there ; as if inde that pallor were as much like the badg of constern in the other world , as of mortal trepid here . and from that pallor of the dead , we borrow the express hue of the shroud in which we wrap them . nor even in our superstit do we fail to throw the same snowi mantl round our phantom ; all ghost rise in a milk - white fog -- yea , while these terror seiz us , let us add , that even the king of terror , when personifi by the evangelist , ride on hi pallid hors . therefor , in hi other mood , symbol whatev grand or graciou thing he will by white , no man can deni that in it profoundest ideal signific it call up a peculiar apparit to the soul . but though without dissent thi point be fix , how is mortal man to account for it ? To analys it , would seem imposs . can we , then , by the citat of some of those instanc wherein thi thing of white -- though for the time either wholli or in great part strip of all direct associ calcul to impart to it aught fear , but nevertheless , is found to exert over us the same sorceri , howev modifi ; -- can we thu hope to light upon some chanc clue to conduct us to the hidden caus we seek ? let us tri . but in a matter like thi , subtleti appeal to subtleti , and without imagin no man can follow anoth into these hall . and though , doubtless , some at least of the imagin impress about to be present may have been share by most men , yet few perhap were entir consciou of them at the time , and therefor may not be abl to recal them now . whi to the man of untutor ideal , who happen to be but loos acquaint with the peculiar charact of the day , doe the bare mention of whitsuntid marshal in the fanci such long , dreari , speechless process of slow - pace pilgrim , down - cast and hood with new - fallen snow ? Or , to the unread , unsophist protest of the middl american state , whi doe the pass mention of a white friar or a white nun , evok such an eyeless statu in the soul ? Or what is there apart from the tradit of dungeon warrior and king ( which will not wholli account for it ) that make the white tower of london tell so much more strongli on the imagin of an untravel american , than those other stori structur , it neighbor -- the byward tower , or even the bloodi ? and those sublim tower , the white mountain of new hampshir , whenc , in peculiar mood , come that gigant ghostli over the soul at the bare mention of that name , while the thought of virginia ' s blue ridg is full of a soft , dewi , distant dreami ? Or whi , irrespect of all latitud and longitud , doe the name of the white sea exert such a spectral over the fanci , while that of the yellow sea lull us with mortal thought of long lacquer mild afternoon on the wave , follow by the gaudiest and yet sleepiest of sunset ? Or , to choos a wholli unsubstanti instanc , pure address to the fanci , whi , in read the old fairi tale of central europ , doe `` the tall pale man `` of the hartz forest , whose changeless pallor unrustlingli glide through the green of the grove -- whi is thi phantom more terribl than all the whoop imp of the blocksburg ? nor is it , altogeth , the remembr of her cathedr - toppl earthquak ; nor the stampedo of her frantic sea ; nor the tearless of arid sky that never rain ; nor the sight of her wide field of lean spire , wrench cope - stone , and cross all adroop ( like cant yard of anchor fleet ) ; and her suburban avenu of hous - wall lie over upon each other , as a toss pack of card ; -- it is not these thing alon which make tearless lima , the strangest , saddest citi thou can ' st see . for lima ha taken the white veil ; and there is a higher horror in thi white of her woe . old as pizarro , thi white keep her ruin for ever new ; admit not the cheer green of complet decay ; spread over her broken rampart the rigid pallor of an apoplexi that fix it own distort . I know that , to the common apprehens , thi phenomenon of white is not confess to be the prime agent in exagger the terror of object otherwis terribl ; nor to the unimagin mind is there aught of terror in those appear whose aw to anoth mind almost sole consist in thi one phenomenon , especi when exhibit under ani form at all approach to mute or univers . what I mean by these two statement may perhap be respect elucid by the follow exampl . first : the marin , when draw nigh the coast of foreign land , if by night he hear the roar of breaker , start to vigil , and feel just enough of trepid to sharpen all hi faculti ; but under precis similar circumst , let him be call from hi hammock to view hi ship sail through a midnight sea of milki white -- as if from encircl headland shoal of comb white bear were swim round him , then he feel a silent , superstiti dread ; the shroud phantom of the whiten water is horribl to him as a real ghost ; in vain the lead assur him he is still off sound ; heart and helm they both go down ; he never rest till blue water is under him again . yet where is the marin who will tell thee , `` sir , it wa not so much the fear of strike hidden rock , as the fear of that hideou white that so stir me ? '' second : To the nativ indian of peru , the continu sight of the snowhowdah and convey naught of dread , except , perhap , in the mere fanci of the etern frost desol reign at such vast altitud , and the natur conceit of what a fear it would be to lose oneself in such inhuman solitud . much the same is it with the backwoodsman of the west , who with compar indiffer view an unbound prairi sheet with driven snow , no shadow of tree or twig to break the fix tranc of white . not so the sailor , behold the sceneri of the antarct sea ; where at time , by some infern trick of legerdemain in the power of frost and air , he , shiver and half shipwreck , instead of rainbow speak hope and solac to hi miseri , view what seem a boundless churchyard grin upon him with it lean ice monument and splinter cross . but thou sayest , methink that white - lead chapter about white is but a white flag hung out from a craven soul ; thou surrenderest to a hypo , ishmael . tell me , whi thi strong young colt , foal in some peac valley of vermont , far remov from all beast of prey -- whi is it that upon the sunniest day , if you but shake a fresh buffalo robe behind him , so that he can not even see it , but onli smell it wild anim muski -- whi will he start , snort , and with burst eye paw the ground in phrensi of affright ? there is no remembr in him of ani gore of wild creatur in hi green northern home , so that the strang muski he smell can not recal to him anyth associ with the experi of former peril ; for what know he , thi new england colt , of the black bison of distant oregon ? No ; but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute , the instinct of the knowledg of the demon in the world . though thousand of mile from oregon , still when he smell that savag musk , the rend , gore bison herd are as present as to the desert wild foal of the prairi , which thi instant they may be trampl into dust . thu , then , the muffl roll of a milki sea ; the bleak rustl of the festoon frost of mountain ; the desol shift of the windrow snow of prairi ; all these , to ishmael , are as the shake of that buffalo robe to the frighten colt ! though neither know where lie the nameless thing of which the mystic sign give forth such hint ; yet with me , as with the colt , somewher those thing must exist . though in mani of it aspect thi visibl world seem form in love , the invis sphere were form in fright . but not yet have we solv the incant of thi white , and learn whi it appeal with such power to the soul ; and more strang and far more portent -- whi , as we have seen , it is at onc the most mean symbol of spiritu thing , nay , the veri veil of the christian ' s deiti ; and yet should be as it is , the intensifi agent in thing the most appal to mankind . Is it that by it indefinit it shadow forth the heartless void and immens of the univers , and thu stab us from behind with the thought of annihil , when behold the white depth of the milki way ? Or is it , that as in essenc white is not so much a colour as the visibl absenc of colour ; and at the same time the concret of all colour ; is it for these reason that there is such a dumb blank , full of mean , in a wide landscap of snow -- a colourless , all - colour of atheism from which we shrink ? and when we consid that other theori of the natur philosoph , that all other earthli hue -- everi state or love emblazon -- the sweet ting of sunset sky and wood ; yea , and the gild velvet of butterfli , and the butterfli cheek of young girl ; all these are but subtil deceit , not actual inher in substanc , but onli laid on from without ; so that all deifi natur absolut paint like the harlot , whose allur cover noth but the charnel - hous within ; and when we proceed further , and consid that the mystic cosmet which produc everi one of her hue , the great principl of light , for ever remain white or colourless in itself , and if oper without medium upon matter , would touch all object , even tulip and rose , with it own blank ting -- ponder all thi , the palsi univers lie befor us a leper ; and like wil travel in lapland , who refus to wear colour and colour glass upon their eye , so the wretch infidel gaze himself blind at the monument white shroud that wrap all the prospect around him . and of all these thing the albino whale wa the symbol . wonder ye then at the fieri hunt ? chapter 43 hark ! `` hist ! did you hear that nois , cabaco ? It wa the middl - watch ; a fair moonlight ; the seamen were stand in a cordon , extend from one of the fresh - water butt in the waist , to the scuttl - butt near the taffrail . In thi manner , they pass the bucket to fill the scuttl - butt . stand , for the most part , on the hallow precinct of the quarter - deck , they were care not to speak or rustl their feet . from hand to hand , the bucket went in the deepest silenc , onli broken by the occasion flap of a sail , and the steadi hum of the unceasingli advanc keel . It wa in the midst of thi repos , that archi , one of the cordon , whose post wa near the after - hatch , whisper to hi neighbor , a cholo , the word abov . `` hist ! did you hear that nois , cabaco ? '' `` take the bucket , will ye , archi ? what nois d ' ye mean ? '' `` there it is again -- under the hatch -- don ' t you hear it -- a cough -- it sound like a cough . '' `` cough be damn ! pass along that return bucket . '' `` there again -- there it is ! -- it sound like two or three sleeper turn over , now ! '' `` caramba ! have done , shipmat , will ye ? It ' s the three soak biscuit ye eat for supper turn over insid of ye -- noth els . look to the bucket ! '' `` say what ye will , shipmat ; I ' ve sharp ear . '' `` aye , you are the chap , ain ' t ye , that heard the hum of the old quakeress ' s knit - needl fifti mile at sea from nantucket ; you ' re the chap . '' `` grin away ; we ' ll see what turn up . hark ye , cabaco , there is somebodi down in the after - hold that ha not yet been seen on deck ; and I suspect our old mogul know someth of it too . I heard stubb tell flask , one morn watch , that there wa someth of that sort in the wind . '' `` tish ! the bucket ! '' chapter 44 the chart . had you follow captain ahab down into hi cabin after the squall that took place on the night succeed that wild ratif of hi purpos with hi crew , you would have seen him go to a locker in the transom , and bring out a larg wrinkl roll of yellowish sea chart , spread them befor him on hi screw - down tabl . then seat himself befor it , you would have seen him intent studi the variou line and shade which there met hi eye ; and with slow but steadi pencil trace addit cours over space that befor were blank . At interv , he would refer to pile of old log - book besid him , wherein were set down the season and place in which , on variou former voyag of variou ship , sperm whale had been captur or seen . while thu employ , the heavi pewter lamp suspend in chain over hi head , continu rock with the motion of the ship , and for ever threw shift gleam and shadow of line upon hi wrinkl brow , till it almost seem that while he himself wa mark out line and cours on the wrinkl chart , some invis pencil wa also trace line and cours upon the deepli mark chart of hi forehead . but it wa not thi night in particular that , in the solitud of hi cabin , ahab thu ponder over hi chart . almost everi night they were brought out ; almost everi night some pencil mark were effac , and other were substitut . for with the chart of all four ocean befor him , ahab wa thread a maze of current and eddi , with a view to the more certain accomplish of that monomaniac thought of hi soul . now , to ani one not fulli acquaint with the way of the leviathan , it might seem an absurdli hopeless task thu to seek out one solitari creatur in the unhoop ocean of thi planet . but not so did it seem to ahab , who knew the set of all tide and current ; and therebi calcul the drift of the sperm whale ' s food ; and , also , call to mind the regular , ascertain season for hunt him in particular latitud ; could arriv at reason surmis , almost approach to certainti , concern the timeliest day to be upon thi or that ground in search of hi prey . So assur , inde , is the fact concern the periodic of the sperm whale ' s resort to given water , that mani hunter believ that , could he be close observ and studi throughout the world ; were the log for one voyag of the entir whale fleet care collat , then the migrat of the sperm whale would be found to correspond in invari to those of the her - shoal or the flight of swallow . On thi hint , attempt have been made to construct elabor migratori chart of the sperm whale . * * sinc the abov wa written , the statement is happili born out by an offici circular , issu by lieuten mauri , of the nation observatori , washington , april 16th , 1851 . By that circular , it appear that precis such a chart is in cours of complet ; and portion of it are present in the circular . `` thi chart divid the ocean into district of five degre of latitud by five degre of longitud ; perpendicularli through each of which district are twelv column for the twelv month ; and horizont through each of which district are three line ; one to show the number of day that have been spent in each month in everi district , and the two other to show the number of day in which whale , sperm or right , have been seen . '' besid , when make a passag from one feed - ground to anoth , the sperm whale , guid by some infal instinct -- say , rather , secret intellig from the deiti -- mostli swim in vein , as they are call ; continu their way along a given ocean - line with such undevi exactitud , that no ship ever sail her cours , by ani chart , with one tith of such marvel precis . though , in these case , the direct taken by ani one whale be straight as a surveyor ' s parallel , and though the line of advanc be strictli confin to it own unavoid , straight wake , yet the arbitrari vein in which at these time he is said to swim , gener embrac some few mile in width ( more or less , as the vein is presum to expand or contract ) ; but never exce the visual sweep from the whale - ship ' s mast - head , when circumspectli glide along thi magic zone . the sum is , that at particular season within that breadth and along that path , migrat whale may with great confid be look for . and henc not onli at substanti time , upon well known separ feed - ground , could ahab hope to encount hi prey ; but in cross the widest expans of water between those ground he could , by hi art , so place and time himself on hi way , as even then not to be wholli without prospect of a meet . there wa a circumst which at first sight seem to entangl hi deliri but still method scheme . but not so in the realiti , perhap . though the gregari sperm whale have their regular season for particular ground , yet in gener you can not conclud that the herd which haunt such and such a latitud or longitud thi year , say , will turn out to be ident the same with those that were found there the preced season ; though there are peculiar and unquestion instanc where the contrari of thi ha prove true . In gener , the same remark , onli within a less wide limit , appli to the solitari and hermit among the matur , age sperm whale . So that though mobi dick had in a former year been seen , for exampl , on what is call the seychel ground in the indian ocean , or volcano bay on the japanes coast ; yet it did not follow , that were the pequod to visit either of those spot at ani subsequ correspond season , she would infal encount him there . So , too , with some other feed ground , where he had at time reveal himself . but all these seem onli hi casual stop - place and ocean - inn , so to speak , not hi place of prolong abod . and where ahab ' s chanc of accomplish hi object have hitherto been spoken of , allus ha onli been made to whatev way - side , anteced , extra prospect were hi , ere a particular set time or place were attain , when all possibl would becom probabl , and , as ahab fondli thought , everi possibl the next thing to a certainti . that particular set time and place were conjoin in the one technic phrase -- the season - on - the - line . for there and then , for sever consecut year , mobi dick had been period descri , linger in those water for awhil , as the sun , in it annual round , loiter for a predict interv in ani one sign of the zodiac . there it wa , too , that most of the deadli encount with the white whale had taken place ; there the wave were stori with hi deed ; there also wa that tragic spot where the monomaniac old man had found the aw motiv to hi vengeanc . but in the cautiou comprehens and unloit vigil with which ahab threw hi brood soul into thi unfalt hunt , he would not permit himself to rest all hi hope upon the one crown fact abov mention , howev flatter it might be to those hope ; nor in the sleepless of hi vow could he so tranquil hi unquiet heart as to postpon all interven quest . now , the pequod had sail from nantucket at the veri begin of the season - on - the - line . No possibl endeavor then could enabl her command to make the great passag southward , doubl cape horn , and then run down sixti degre of latitud arriv in the equatori pacif in time to cruis there . therefor , he must wait for the next ensu season . yet the prematur hour of the pequod ' s sail had , perhap , been correctli select by ahab , with a view to thi veri complexion of thing . becaus , an interv of three hundr and sixti - five day and night wa befor him ; an interv which , instead of impati endur ashor , he would spend in a miscellan hunt ; if by chanc the white whale , spend hi vacat in sea far remot from hi period feed - ground , should turn up hi wrinkl brow off the persian gulf , or in the bengal bay , or china sea , or in ani other water haunt by hi race . So that monsoon , pampa , nor '- wester , harmattan , trade ; ani wind but the levant and simoon , might blow mobi dick into the deviou zig - zag world - circl of the pequod ' s circumnavig wake . but grant all thi ; yet , regard discreetli and coolli , seem it not but a mad idea , thi ; that in the broad boundless ocean , one solitari whale , even if encount , should be thought capabl of individu recognit from hi hunter , even as a white - beard mufti in the throng thoroughfar of constantinopl ? ye . for the peculiar snow - white brow of mobi dick , and hi snow - white hump , could not but be unmistak . and have I not talli the whale , ahab would mutter to himself , as after pore over hi chart till long after midnight he would throw himself back in reveri -- talli him , and shall he escap ? hi broad fin are bore , and scallop out like a lost sheep ' s ear ! and here , hi mad mind would run on in a breathless race ; till a weari and faint of ponder came over him ; and in the open air of the deck he would seek to recov hi strength . Ah , god ! what tranc of torment doe that man endur who is consum with one unachiev reveng desir . He sleep with clench hand ; and wake with hi own bloodi nail in hi palm . often , when forc from hi hammock by exhaust and intoler vivid dream of the night , which , resum hi own intens thought through the day , carri them on amid a clash of phrensi , and whirl them round and round and round in hi blaze brain , till the veri throb of hi life - spot becam insuffer anguish ; and when , as wa sometim the case , these spiritu throe in him heav hi be up from it base , and a chasm seem open in him , from which fork flame and lightn shot up , and accurs fiend beckon him to leap down among them ; when thi hell in himself yawn beneath him , a wild cri would be heard through the ship ; and with glare eye ahab would burst from hi state room , as though escap from a bed that wa on fire . yet these , perhap , instead of be the unsuppress symptom of some latent weak , or fright at hi own resolv , were but the plainest token of it intens . for , at such time , crazi ahab , the scheme , unappeasedli steadfast hunter of the white whale ; thi ahab that had gone to hi hammock , wa not the agent that so caus him to burst from it in horror again . the latter wa the etern , live principl or soul in him ; and in sleep , be for the time dissoci from the character mind , which at other time employ it for it outer vehicl or agent , it spontan sought escap from the scorch contigu of the frantic thing , of which , for the time , it wa no longer an integr . but as the mind doe not exist unless leagu with the soul , therefor it must have been that , in ahab ' s case , yield up all hi thought and fanci to hi one suprem purpos ; that purpos , by it own sheer inveteraci of will , forc itself against god and devil into a kind of self - assum , independ be of it own . nay , could grimli live and burn , while the common vital to which it wa conjoin , fled horror - stricken from the unbidden and unfath birth . therefor , the torment spirit that glare out of bodili eye , when what seem ahab rush from hi room , wa for the time but a vacat thing , a formless somnambulist be , a ray of live light , to be sure , but without an object to colour , and therefor a blank in itself . god help thee , old man , thi thought have creat a creatur in thee ; and he whose intens think thu make him a prometheu ; a vultur feed upon that heart for ever ; that vultur the veri creatur he creat . chapter 45 the affidavit . So far as what there may be of a narr in thi book ; and , inde , as indirectli touch one or two veri interest and curiou particular in the habit of sperm whale , the forego chapter , in it earlier part , is as import a one as will be found in thi volum ; but the lead matter of it requir to be still further and more familiarli enlarg upon , in order to be adequ understood , and moreov to take away ani incredul which a profound ignor of the entir subject may induc in some mind , as to the natur veriti of the main point of thi affair . I care not to perform thi part of my task method ; but shall be content to produc the desir impress by separ citat of item , practic or reliabl known to me as a whaleman ; and from these citat , I take it -- the conclus aim at will natur follow of itself . first : I have person known three instanc where a whale , after receiv a harpoon , ha effect a complet escap ; and , after an interv ( in one instanc of three year ) , ha been again struck by the same hand , and slain ; when the two iron , both mark by the same privat cypher , have been taken from the bodi . In the instanc where three year interven between the fling of the two harpoon ; and I think it may have been someth more than that ; the man who dart them happen , in the interv , to go in a trade ship on a voyag to africa , went ashor there , join a discoveri parti , and penetr far into the interior , where he travel for a period of nearli two year , often endang by serpent , savag , tiger , poison miasma , with all the other common peril incid to wander in the heart of unknown region . meanwhil , the whale he had struck must also have been on it travel ; no doubt it had thrice circumnavig the globe , brush with it flank all the coast of africa ; but to no purpos . thi man and thi whale again came togeth , and the one vanquish the other . I say I , myself , have known three instanc similar to thi ; that is in two of them I saw the whale struck ; and , upon the second attack , saw the two iron with the respect mark cut in them , afterward taken from the dead fish . In the three - year instanc , it so fell out that I wa in the boat both time , first and last , and the last time distinctli recognis a peculiar sort of huge mole under the whale ' s eye , which I had observ there three year previou . I say three year , but I am pretti sure it wa more than that . here are three instanc , then , which I person know the truth of ; but I have heard of mani other instanc from person whose verac in the matter there is no good ground to impeach . secondli : It is well known in the sperm whale fisheri , howev ignor the world ashor may be of it , that there have been sever memor histor instanc where a particular whale in the ocean ha been at distant time and place popularli cognis . whi such a whale becam thu mark wa not altogeth and origin owe to hi bodili peculiar as distinguish from other whale ; for howev peculiar in that respect ani chanc whale may be , they soon put an end to hi peculiar by kill him , and boil him down into a peculiarli valuabl oil . No : the reason wa thi : that from the fatal experi of the fisheri there hung a terribl prestig of peril about such a whale as there did about rinaldo rinaldini , insomuch that most fishermen were content to recognis him by mere touch their tarpaulin when he would be discov loung by them on the sea , without seek to cultiv a more intim acquaint . like some poor devil ashor that happen to know an irasc great man , they make distant unobtrus salut to him in the street , lest if they pursu the acquaint further , they might receiv a summari thump for their presumpt . but not onli did each of these famou whale enjoy great individu celebr -- nay , you may call it an ocean - wide renown ; not onli wa he famou in life and now is immort in forecastl stori after death , but he wa admit into all the right , privileg , and distinct of a name ; had as much a name inde as cambys or caesar . wa it not so , O timor tom ! thou fame leviathan , scar like an iceberg , who so long did ' st lurk in the orient strait of that name , whose spout wa oft seen from the palmi beach of ombay ? wa it not so , O new zealand jack ! thou terror of all cruiser that cross their wake in the vicin of the tattoo land ? wa it not so , O morquan ! king of japan , whose lofti jet they say at time assum the semblanc of a snow - white cross against the sky ? wa it not so , O don miguel ! thou chilian whale , mark like an old tortois with mystic hieroglyph upon the back ! In plain prose , here are four whale as well known to the student of cetacean histori as mariu or sylla to the classic scholar . but thi is not all . new zealand tom and don miguel , after at variou time creat great havoc among the boat of differ vessel , were final gone in quest of , systemat hunt out , chase and kill by valiant whale captain , who heav up their anchor with that express object as much in view , as in set out through the narragansett wood , captain butler of old had it in hi mind to captur that notori murder savag annawon , the headmost warrior of the indian king philip . I do not know where I can find a better place than just here , to make mention of one or two other thing , which to me seem import , as in print form establish in all respect the reason of the whole stori of the white whale , more especi the catastroph . for thi is one of those dishearten instanc where truth requir full as much bolster as error . So ignor are most landsmen of some of the plainest and most palpabl wonder of the world , that without some hint touch the plain fact , histor and otherwis , of the fisheri , they might scout at mobi dick as a monstrou fabl , or still wors and more detest , a hideou and intoler allegori . first : though most men have some vagu flit idea of the gener peril of the grand fisheri , yet they have noth like a fix , vivid concept of those peril , and the frequenc with which they recur . one reason perhap is , that not one in fifti of the actual disast and death by casualti in the fisheri , ever find a public record at home , howev transient and immedi forgotten that record . Do you suppos that that poor fellow there , who thi moment perhap caught by the whale - line off the coast of new guinea , is be carri down to the bottom of the sea by the sound leviathan -- do you suppos that that poor fellow ' s name will appear in the newspap obituari you will read to - morrow at your breakfast ? No : becaus the mail are veri irregular between here and new guinea . In fact , did you ever hear what might be call regular news direct or indirect from new guinea ? yet I tell you that upon one particular voyag which I made to the pacif , among mani other we spoke thirti differ ship , everi one of which had had a death by a whale , some of them more than one , and three that had each lost a boat ' s crew . for god ' s sake , be econom with your lamp and candl ! not a gallon you burn , but at least one drop of man ' s blood wa spill for it . secondli : peopl ashor have inde some indefinit idea that a whale is an enorm creatur of enorm power ; but I have ever found that when narrat to them some specif exampl of thi two - fold enorm , they have significantli compliment me upon my faceti ; when , I declar upon my soul , I had no more idea of be faceti than mose , when he wrote the histori of the plagu of egypt . but fortun the special point I here seek can be establish upon testimoni entir independ of my own . that point is thi : the sperm whale is in some case suffici power , know , and judici malici , as with direct aforethought to stave in , utterli destroy , and sink a larg ship ; and what is more , the sperm whale ha done it . first : In the year 1820 the ship essex , captain pollard , of nantucket , wa cruis in the pacif ocean . one day she saw spout , lower her boat , and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whale . ere long , sever of the whale were wound ; when , suddenli , a veri larg whale escap from the boat , issu from the shoal , and bore directli down upon the ship . dash hi forehead against her hull , he so stove her in , that in less than `` ten minut `` she settl down and fell over . not a surviv plank of her ha been seen sinc . after the severest exposur , part of the crew reach the land in their boat . be return home at last , captain pollard onc more sail for the pacif in command of anoth ship , but the god shipwreck him again upon unknown rock and breaker ; for the second time hi ship wa utterli lost , and forthwith forswear the sea , he ha never tempt it sinc . At thi day captain pollard is a resid of nantucket . I have seen owen chace , who wa chief mate of the essex at the time of the tragedi ; I have read hi plain and faith narr ; I have convers with hi son ; and all thi within a few mile of the scene of the catastroph . * * the follow are extract from chace ' s narr : `` everi fact seem to warrant me in conclud that it wa anyth but chanc which direct hi oper ; he made two sever attack upon the ship , at a short interv between them , both of which , accord to their direct , were calcul to do us the most injuri , by be made ahead , and therebi combin the speed of the two object for the shock ; to effect which , the exact manoeuvr which he made were necessari . hi aspect wa most horribl , and such as indic resent and furi . He came directli from the shoal which we had just befor enter , and in which we had struck three of hi companion , as if fire with reveng for their suffer . '' again : `` At all event , the whole circumst taken togeth , all happen befor my own eye , and produc , at the time , impress in my mind of decid , calcul mischief , on the part of the whale ( mani of which impress I can not now recal ) , induc me to be satisfi that I am correct in my opinion . '' here are hi reflect some time after quit the ship , dure a black night an open boat , when almost despair of reach ani hospit shore . `` the dark ocean and swell water were noth ; the fear of be swallow up by some dread tempest , or dash upon hidden rock , with all the other ordinari subject of fear contempl , seem scarc entitl to a moment ' s thought ; the dismal look wreck , and the horrid aspect and reveng OF the whale , wholli engross my reflect , until day again made it appear . '' In anoth place -- p . 45 , -- he speak of `` the mysteri and mortal attack OF the anim . '' secondli : the ship union , also of nantucket , wa in the year 1807 total lost off the azor by a similar onset , but the authent particular of thi catastroph I have never chanc to encount , though from the whale hunter I have now and then heard casual allus to it . thirdli : some eighteen or twenti year ago commodor J -- - , then command an american sloop - of - war of the first class , happen to be dine with a parti of whale captain , on board a nantucket ship in the harbor of oahu , sandwich island . convers turn upon whale , the commodor wa pleas to be sceptic touch the amaz strength ascrib to them by the profession gentlemen present . He peremptorili deni for exampl , that ani whale could so smite hi stout sloop - of - war as to caus her to leak so much as a thimbl . veri good ; but there is more come . some week after , the commodor set sail in thi impregn craft for valparaiso . but he wa stop on the way by a portli sperm whale , that beg a few moment ' confidenti busi with him . that busi consist in fetch the commodor ' s craft such a thwack , that with all hi pump go he made straight for the nearest port to heav down and repair . I am not superstiti , but I consid the commodor ' s interview with that whale as providenti . wa not saul of tarsu convert from unbelief by a similar fright ? I tell you , the sperm whale will stand no nonsens . I will now refer you to langsdorff ' s voyag for a littl circumst in point , peculiarli interest to the writer hereof . langsdorff , you must know by the way , wa attach to the russian admir krusenstern ' s famou discoveri expedit in the begin of the present centuri . captain langsdorff thu begin hi seventeenth chapter : `` By the thirteenth of may our ship wa readi to sail , and the next day we were out in the open sea , on our way to ochotsh . the weather wa veri clear and fine , but so intoler cold that we were oblig to keep on our fur cloth . for some day we had veri littl wind ; it wa not till the nineteenth that a brisk gale from the northwest sprang up . An uncommon larg whale , the bodi of which wa larger than the ship itself , lay almost at the surfac of the water , but wa not perceiv by ani one on board till the moment when the ship , which wa in full sail , wa almost upon him , so that it wa imposs to prevent it strike against him . We were thu place in the most immin danger , as thi gigant creatur , set up it back , rais the ship three feet at least out of the water . the mast reel , and the sail fell altogeth , while we who were below all sprang instantli upon the deck , conclud that we had struck upon some rock ; instead of thi we saw the monster sail off with the utmost graviti and solemn . captain D ' wolf appli immedi to the pump to examin whether or not the vessel had receiv ani damag from the shock , but we found that veri happili it had escap entir uninjur . '' now , the captain D ' wolf here allud to as command the ship in question , is a new england , who , after a long life of unusu adventur as a sea - captain , thi day resid in the villag of dorchest near boston . I have the honour of be a nephew of hi . I have particularli question him concern thi passag in langsdorff . He substanti everi word . the ship , howev , wa by no mean a larg one : a russian craft built on the siberian coast , and purchas by my uncl after barter away the vessel in which he sail from home . In that up and down manli book of old - fashion adventur , so full , too , of honest wonder -- the voyag of lionel wafer , one of ancient dampier ' s old chum -- I found a littl matter set down so like that just quot from langsdorff , that I can not forbear insert it here for a corrobor exampl , if such be need . lionel , it seem , wa on hi way to `` john ferdinando , '' as he call the modern juan fernand . `` In our way thither , '' he say , `` about four o ' clock in the morn , when we were about one hundr and fifti leagu from the main of america , our ship felt a terribl shock , which put our men in such constern that they could hardli tell where they were or what to think ; but everi one began to prepar for death . and , inde , the shock wa so sudden and violent , that we took it for grant the ship had struck against a rock ; but when the amaz wa a littl over , we cast the lead , and sound , but found no ground . .... the sudden of the shock made the gun leap in their carriag , and sever of the men were shaken out of their hammock . captain davi , who lay with hi head on a gun , wa thrown out of hi cabin ! '' lionel then goe on to imput the shock to an earthquak , and seem to substanti the imput by state that a great earthquak , somewher about that time , did actual do great mischief along the spanish land . but I should not much wonder if , in the dark of that earli hour of the morn , the shock wa after all caus by an unseen whale vertic bump the hull from beneath . I might proceed with sever more exampl , one way or anoth known to me , of the great power and malic at time of the sperm whale . In more than one instanc , he ha been known , not onli to chase the assail boat back to their ship , but to pursu the ship itself , and long withstand all the lanc hurl at him from it deck . the english ship pusi hall can tell a stori on that head ; and , as for hi strength , let me say , that there have been exampl where the line attach to a run sperm whale have , in a calm , been transfer to the ship , and secur there ; the whale tow her great hull through the water , as a hors walk off with a cart . again , it is veri often observ that , if the sperm whale , onc struck , is allow time to ralli , he then act , not so often with blind rage , as with wil , deliber design of destruct to hi pursuer ; nor is it without convey some eloqu indic of hi charact , that upon be attack he will frequent open hi mouth , and retain it in that dread expans for sever consecut minut . but I must be content with onli one more and a conclud illustr ; a remark and most signific one , by which you will not fail to see , that not onli is the most marvel event in thi book corrobor by plain fact of the present day , but that these marvel ( like all marvel ) are mere repetit of the age ; so that for the millionth time we say amen with solomon -- verili there is noth new under the sun . In the sixth christian centuri live procopiu , a christian magistr of constantinopl , in the day when justinian wa emperor and belisariu gener . As mani know , he wrote the histori of hi own time , a work everi way of uncommon valu . By the best author , he ha alway been consid a most trustworthi and unexagger historian , except in some one or two particular , not at all affect the matter present to be mention . now , in thi histori of hi , procopiu mention that , dure the term of hi prefectur at constantinopl , a great sea - monster wa captur in the neighbor proponti , or sea of marmora , after have destroy vessel at interv in those water for a period of more than fifti year . A fact thu set down in substanti histori can not easili be gainsaid . nor is there ani reason it should be . Of what precis speci thi sea - monster wa , is not mention . but as he destroy ship , as well as for other reason , he must have been a whale ; and I am strongli inclin to think a sperm whale . and I will tell you whi . for a long time I fanci that the sperm whale had been alway unknown in the mediterranean and the deep water connect with it . even now I am certain that those sea are not , and perhap never can be , in the present constitut of thing , a place for hi habitu gregari resort . but further investig have recent prove to me , that in modern time there have been isol instanc of the presenc of the sperm whale in the mediterranean . I am told , on good author , that on the barbari coast , a commodor davi of the british navi found the skeleton of a sperm whale . now , as a vessel of war readili pass through the dardanel , henc a sperm whale could , by the same rout , pass out of the mediterranean into the proponti . In the proponti , as far as I can learn , none of that peculiar substanc call brit is to be found , the aliment of the right whale . but I have everi reason to believ that the food of the sperm whale -- squid or cuttl - fish -- lurk at the bottom of that sea , becaus larg creatur , but by no mean the largest of that sort , have been found at it surfac . If , then , you properli put these statement togeth , and reason upon them a bit , you will clearli perceiv that , accord to all human reason , procopiu ' s sea - monster , that for half a centuri stove the ship of a roman emperor , must in all probabl have been a sperm whale . chapter 46 surmis . though , consum with the hot fire of hi purpos , ahab in all hi thought and action ever had in view the ultim captur of mobi dick ; though he seem readi to sacrific all mortal interest to that one passion ; nevertheless it may have been that he wa by natur and long habitu far too wed to a fieri whaleman ' s way , altogeth to abandon the collater prosecut of the voyag . Or at least if thi were otherwis , there were not want other motiv much more influenti with him . It would be refin too much , perhap , even consid hi monomania , to hint that hi vindict toward the white whale might have possibl extend itself in some degre to all sperm whale , and that the more monster he slew by so much the more he multipli the chanc that each subsequ encount whale would prove to be the hate one he hunt . but if such an hypothesi be inde exception , there were still addit consider which , though not so strictli accord with the wild of hi rule passion , yet were by no mean incap of sway him . To accomplish hi object ahab must use tool ; and of all tool use in the shadow of the moon , men are most apt to get out of order . He knew , for exampl , that howev magnet hi ascend in some respect wa over starbuck , yet that ascend did not cover the complet spiritu man ani more than mere corpor superior involv intellectu mastership ; for to the pure spiritu , the intellectu but stand in a sort of corpor relat . starbuck ' s bodi and starbuck ' s coerc will were ahab ' s , so long as ahab kept hi magnet at starbuck ' s brain ; still he knew that for all thi the chief mate , in hi soul , abhor hi captain ' s quest , and could he , would joy disintegr himself from it , or even frustrat it . It might be that a long interv would elaps ere the white whale wa seen . dure that long interv starbuck would ever be apt to fall into open relaps of rebellion against hi captain ' s leadership , unless some ordinari , prudenti , circumstanti influenc were brought to bear upon him . not onli that , but the subtl insan of ahab respect mobi dick wa noway more significantli manifest than in hi superl sens and shrewd in forese that , for the present , the hunt should in some way be strip of that strang imagin impious which natur invest it ; that the full terror of the voyag must be kept withdrawn into the obscur background ( for few men ' s courag is proof against protract medit unreliev by action ) ; that when they stood their long night watch , hi offic and men must have some nearer thing to think of than mobi dick . for howev eagerli and impetu the savag crew had hail the announc of hi quest ; yet all sailor of all sort are more or less caprici and unreli -- they live in the vari outer weather , and they inhal it fickl -- and when retain for ani object remot and blank in the pursuit , howev promissori of life and passion in the end , it is abov all thing requisit that temporari interest and employ should interven and hold them healthili suspend for the final dash . nor wa ahab unmind of anoth thing . In time of strong emot mankind disdain all base consider ; but such time are evanesc . the perman constitut condit of the manufactur man , thought ahab , is sordid . grant that the white whale fulli incit the heart of thi my savag crew , and play round their savag even breed a certain gener knight - errant in them , still , while for the love of it they give chase to mobi dick , they must also have food for their more common , daili appetit . for even the high lift and chivalr crusad of old time were not content to travers two thousand mile of land to fight for their holi sepulchr , without commit burglari , pick pocket , and gain other piou perquisit by the way . had they been strictli held to their one final and romant object -- that final and romant object , too mani would have turn from in disgust . I will not strip these men , thought ahab , of all hope of cash -- aye , cash . they may scorn cash now ; but let some month go by , and no perspect promis of it to them , and then thi same quiescent cash all at onc mutini in them , thi same cash would soon cashier ahab . nor wa there want still anoth precautionari motiv more relat to ahab person . have impuls , it is probabl , and perhap somewhat prematur reveal the prime but privat purpos of the pequod ' s voyag , ahab wa now entir consciou that , in so do , he had indirectli laid himself open to the unanswer charg of usurp ; and with perfect impun , both moral and legal , hi crew if so dispos , and to that end compet , could refus all further obedi to him , and even violent wrest from him the command . from even the bare hint imput of usurp , and the possibl consequ of such a suppress impress gain ground , ahab must of cours have been most anxiou to protect himself . that protect could onli consist in hi own predomin brain and heart and hand , back by a heed , close calcul attent to everi minut atmospher influenc which it wa possibl for hi crew to be subject to . for all these reason then , and other perhap too analyt to be verbal develop here , ahab plainli saw that he must still in a good degre continu true to the natur , nomin purpos of the pequod ' s voyag ; observ all customari usag ; and not onli that , but forc himself to evinc all hi well known passion interest in the gener pursuit of hi profess . Be all thi as it may , hi voic wa now often heard hail the three mast - head and admonish them to keep a bright look - out , and not omit report even a porpois . thi vigil wa not long without reward . chapter 47 the mat - maker . It wa a cloudi , sultri afternoon ; the seamen were lazili loung about the deck , or vacantli gaze over into the lead - colour water . queequeg and I were mildli employ weav what is call a sword - mat , for an addit lash to our boat . So still and subdu and yet somehow prelud wa all the scene , and such an incant of reveri lurk in the air , that each silent sailor seem resolv into hi own invis self . I wa the attend or page of queequeg , while busi at the mat . As I kept pass and repass the fill or woof of marlin between the long yarn of the warp , use my own hand for the shuttl , and as queequeg , stand sideway , ever and anon slid hi heavi oaken sword between the thread , and idli look off upon the water , carelessli and unthinkingli drove home everi yarn : I say so strang a dreami did there then reign all over the ship and all over the sea , onli broken by the intermit dull sound of the sword , that it seem as if thi were the loom of time , and I myself were a shuttl mechan weav and weav away at the fate . there lay the fix thread of the warp subject to but one singl , ever return , unchang vibrat , and that vibrat mere enough to admit of the crosswis interblend of other thread with it own . thi warp seem necess ; and here , thought I , with my own hand I pli my own shuttl and weav my own destini into these unalter thread . meantim , queequeg ' s impuls , indiffer sword , sometim hit the woof slantingli , or crookedli , or strongli , or weakli , as the case might be ; and by thi differ in the conclud blow produc a correspond contrast in the final aspect of the complet fabric ; thi savag ' s sword , thought I , which thu final shape and fashion both warp and woof ; thi easi , indiffer sword must be chanc -- aye , chanc , free will , and necess -- nowis incompat -- all interweavingli work togeth . the straight warp of necess , not to be swerv from it ultim cours -- it everi altern vibrat , inde , onli tend to that ; free will still free to pli her shuttl between given thread ; and chanc , though restrain in it play within the right line of necess , and sideway in it motion direct by free will , though thu prescrib to by both , chanc by turn rule either , and ha the last featur blow at event . thu we were weav and weav away when I start at a sound so strang , long drawn , and music wild and unearthli , that the ball of free will drop from my hand , and I stood gaze up at the cloud whenc that voic drop like a wing . high aloft in the cross - tree wa that mad gay - header , tashtego . hi bodi wa reach eagerli forward , hi hand stretch out like a wand , and at brief sudden interv he continu hi cri . To be sure the same sound wa that veri moment perhap be heard all over the sea , from hundr of whalemen ' s look - out perch as high in the air ; but from few of those lung could that accustom old cri have deriv such a marvel cadenc as from tashtego the indian ' s . As he stood hover over you half suspend in air , so wildli and eagerli peer toward the horizon , you would have thought him some prophet or seer behold the shadow of fate , and by those wild cri announc their come . `` there she blow ! there ! there ! there ! she blow ! she blow ! '' `` where - away ? '' `` On the lee - beam , about two mile off ! a school of them ! '' instantli all wa commot . the sperm whale blow as a clock tick , with the same undevi and reliabl uniform . and therebi whalemen distinguish thi fish from other tribe of hi genu . `` there go fluke ! '' wa now the cri from tashtego ; and the whale disappear . `` quick , steward ! '' cri ahab . `` time ! time ! '' dough - boy hurri below , glanc at the watch , and report the exact minut to ahab . the ship wa now kept away from the wind , and she went gentli roll befor it . tashtego report that the whale had gone down head to leeward , we confid look to see them again directli in advanc of our bow . for that singular craft at time evinc by the sperm whale when , sound with hi head in one direct , he nevertheless , while conceal beneath the surfac , mill round , and swiftli swim off in the opposit quarter -- thi deceit of hi could not now be in action ; for there wa no reason to suppos that the fish seen by tashtego had been in ani way alarm , or inde knew at all of our vicin . one of the men select for shipkeep -- that is , those not appoint to the boat , by thi time reliev the indian at the main - mast head . the sailor at the fore and mizzen had come down ; the line tub were fix in their place ; the crane were thrust out ; the mainyard wa back , and the three boat swung over the sea like three samphir basket over high cliff . outsid of the bulwark their eager crew with one hand clung to the rail , while one foot wa expectantli pois on the gunwal . So look the long line of man - of - war ' s men about to throw themselv on board an enemi ' s ship . but at thi critic instant a sudden exclam wa heard that took everi eye from the whale . with a start all glare at dark ahab , who wa surround by five duski phantom that seem fresh form out of air . chapter 48 the first lower . the phantom , for so they then seem , were flit on the other side of the deck , and , with a noiseless celer , were cast loos the tackl and band of the boat which swung there . thi boat had alway been deem one of the spare boat , though technic call the captain ' s , on account of it hang from the starboard quarter . the figur that now stood by it bow wa tall and swart , with one white tooth evilli protrud from it steel - like lip . A rumpl chines jacket of black cotton funer invest him , with wide black trowser of the same dark stuff . but strang crown thi ebon wa a glisten white plait turban , the live hair braid and coil round and round upon hi head . less swart in aspect , the companion of thi figur were of that vivid , tiger - yellow complexion peculiar to some of the aborigin nativ of the manilla ; -- a race notori for a certain diabol of subtilti , and by some honest white marin suppos to be the paid spi and secret confidenti agent on the water of the devil , their lord , whose count - room they suppos to be elsewher . while yet the wonder ship ' s compani were gaze upon these stranger , ahab cri out to the white - turban old man at their head , `` all readi there , fedallah ? '' `` readi , '' wa the half - hiss repli . `` lower away then ; d ' ye hear ? '' shout across the deck . `` lower away there , I say . '' such wa the thunder of hi voic , that spite of their amaz the men sprang over the rail ; the sheav whirl round in the block ; with a wallow , the three boat drop into the sea ; while , with a dexter , off - hand dare , unknown in ani other vocat , the sailor , goat - like , leap down the roll ship ' s side into the toss boat below . hardli had they pull out from under the ship ' s lee , when a fourth keel , come from the windward side , pull round under the stern , and show the five stranger row ahab , who , stand erect in the stern , loudli hail starbuck , stubb , and flask , to spread themselv wide , so as to cover a larg expans of water . but with all their eye again rivet upon the swart fedallah and hi crew , the inmat of the other boat obey not the command . `` captain ahab ? -- '' said starbuck . `` spread yourselv , '' cri ahab ; `` give way , all four boat . thou , flask , pull out more to leeward ! '' `` aye , aye , sir , '' cheerili cri littl king - post , sweep round hi great steer oar . `` lay back ! '' address hi crew . `` there ! -- there ! -- there again ! there she blow right ahead , boy ! -- lay back ! '' `` never heed yonder yellow boy , archi . '' `` Oh , I don ' t mind ' em , sir , '' said archi ; `` I knew it all befor now . didn ' t I hear ' em in the hold ? and didn ' t I tell cabaco here of it ? what say ye , cabaco ? they are stowaway , Mr . flask . '' `` pull , pull , my fine heart - aliv ; pull , my children ; pull , my littl one , '' drawlingli and soothingli sigh stubb to hi crew , some of whom still show sign of uneasi . `` whi don ' t you break your backbon , my boy ? what is it you stare at ? those chap in yonder boat ? tut ! they are onli five more hand come to help us -- never mind from where -- the more the merrier . pull , then , do pull ; never mind the brimston -- devil are good fellow enough . So , so ; there you are now ; that ' s the stroke for a thousand pound ; that ' s the stroke to sweep the stake ! hurrah for the gold cup of sperm oil , my hero ! three cheer , men -- all heart aliv ! easi , easi ; don ' t be in a hurri -- don ' t be in a hurri . whi don ' t you snap your oar , you rascal ? bite someth , you dog ! So , so , so , then : -- softli , softli ! that ' s it -- that ' s it ! long and strong . give way there , give way ! the devil fetch ye , ye ragamuffin rapscallion ; ye are all asleep . stop snore , ye sleeper , and pull . pull , will ye ? pull , can ' t ye ? pull , won ' t ye ? whi in the name of gudgeon and ginger - cake don ' t ye pull ? -- pull and break someth ! pull , and start your eye out ! here ! '' whip out the sharp knife from hi girdl ; `` everi mother ' s son of ye draw hi knife , and pull with the blade between hi teeth . that ' s it -- that ' s it . now ye do someth ; that look like it , my steel - bit . start her -- start her , my silver - spoon ! start her , marl - spike ! '' stubb ' s exordium to hi crew is given here at larg , becaus he had rather a peculiar way of talk to them in gener , and especi in inculc the religion of row . but you must not suppos from thi specimen of hi sermon that he ever flew into downright passion with hi congreg . not at all ; and therein consist hi chief peculiar . He would say the most terrif thing to hi crew , in a tone so strang compound of fun and furi , and the furi seem so calcul mere as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invoc without pull for dear life , and yet pull for the mere joke of the thing . besid he all the time look so easi and indol himself , so loungingli manag hi steer - oar , and so broadli gape -- open - mouth at time -- that the mere sight of such a yawn command , by sheer forc of contrast , act like a charm upon the crew . then again , stubb wa one of those odd sort of humorist , whose jolliti is sometim so curious ambigu , as to put all inferior on their guard in the matter of obey them . In obedi to a sign from ahab , starbuck wa now pull obliqu across stubb ' s bow ; and when for a minut or so the two boat were pretti near to each other , stubb hail the mate . `` Mr . starbuck ! larboard boat there , ahoy ! a word with ye , sir , if ye pleas ! '' `` halloa ! '' return starbuck , turn round not a singl inch as he spoke ; still earnestli but whisperingli urg hi crew ; hi face set like a flint from stubb ' s . `` what think ye of those yellow boy , sir ! `` smuggl on board , somehow , befor the ship sail . ( strong , strong , boy ! ) '' in a whisper to hi crew , then speak out loud again : `` A sad busi , Mr . stubb ! ( seeth her , seeth her , my lad ! ) but never mind , Mr . stubb , all for the best . let all your crew pull strong , come what will . ( spring , my men , spring ! ) there ' s hogshead of sperm ahead , Mr . stubb , and that ' s what ye came for . ( pull , my boy ! ) sperm , sperm ' s the play ! thi at least is duti ; duti and profit hand in hand . '' `` aye , aye , I thought as much , '' soliloqu stubb , when the boat diverg , `` as soon as I clapt eye on ' em , I thought so . aye , and that ' s what he went into the after hold for , so often , as dough - boy long suspect . they were hidden down there . the white whale ' s at the bottom of it . well , well , so be it ! can ' t be help ! all right ! give way , men ! It ain ' t the white whale to - day ! give way ! '' now the advent of these outlandish stranger at such a critic instant as the lower of the boat from the deck , thi had not unreason awaken a sort of superstiti amaz in some of the ship ' s compani ; but archi ' s fanci discoveri have some time previou got abroad among them , though inde not credit then , thi had in some small measur prepar them for the event . It took off the extrem edg of their wonder ; and so what with all thi and stubb ' s confid way of account for their appear , they were for the time freed from superstiti surmis ; though the affair still left abund room for all manner of wild conjectur as to dark ahab ' s precis agenc in the matter from the begin . for me , I silent recal the mysteri shadow I had seen creep on board the pequod dure the dim nantucket dawn , as well as the enigmat hint of the unaccount elijah . meantim , ahab , out of hear of hi offic , have side the furthest to windward , wa still rang ahead of the other boat ; a circumst bespeak how potent a crew wa pull him . those tiger yellow creatur of hi seem all steel and whalebon ; like five trip - hammer they rose and fell with regular stroke of strength , which period start the boat along the water like a horizont burst boiler out of a mississippi steamer . As for fedallah , who wa seen pull the harpoon oar , he had thrown asid hi black jacket , and display hi nake chest with the whole part of hi bodi abov the gunwal , clearli cut against the altern depress of the wateri horizon ; while at the other end of the boat ahab , with one arm , like a fencer ' s , thrown half backward into the air , as if to counterbal ani tendenc to trip ; ahab wa seen steadili manag hi steer oar as in a thousand boat lower ere the white whale had torn him . all at onc the outstretch arm gave a peculiar motion and then remain fix , while the boat ' s five oar were seen simultan peak . boat and crew sat motionless on the sea . instantli the three spread boat in the rear paus on their way . the whale had irregularli settl bodili down into the blue , thu give no distantli discern token of the movement , though from hi closer vicin ahab had observ it . `` everi man look out along hi oar ! '' cri starbuck . `` thou , queequeg , stand up ! '' nimbl spring up on the triangular rais box in the bow , the savag stood erect there , and with intens eager eye gaze off toward the spot where the chase had last been descri . likewis upon the extrem stern of the boat where it wa also triangularli platform level with the gunwal , starbuck himself wa seen coolli and adroitli balanc himself to the jerk toss of hi chip of a craft , and silent eye the vast blue eye of the sea . not veri far distant flask ' s boat wa also lie breathlessli still ; it command recklessli stand upon the top of the loggerhead , a stout sort of post root in the keel , and rise some two feet abov the level of the stern platform . It is use for catch turn with the whale line . it top is not more spaciou than the palm of a man ' s hand , and stand upon such a base as that , flask seem perch at the mast - head of some ship which had sunk to all but her truck . but littl king - post wa small and short , and at the same time littl king - post wa full of a larg and tall ambit , so that thi loggerhead stand - point of hi did by no mean satisfi king - post . `` I can ' t see three sea off ; tip us up an oar there , and let me on to that . '' upon thi , daggoo , with either hand upon the gunwal to steadi hi way , swiftli slid aft , and then erect himself volunt hi lofti shoulder for a pedest . `` good a mast - head as ani , sir . will you mount ? '' `` that I will , and thank ye veri much , my fine fellow ; onli I wish you fifti feet taller . '' whereupon plant hi feet firmli against two opposit plank of the boat , the gigant negro , stoop a littl , present hi flat palm to flask ' s foot , and then put flask ' s hand on hi hears - plume head and bid him spring as he himself should toss , with one dexter fling land the littl man high and dri on hi shoulder . and here wa flask now stand , daggoo with one lift arm furnish him with a breastband to lean against and steadi himself by . At ani time it is a strang sight to the tyro to see with what wondrou habitud of unconsci skill the whaleman will maintain an erect postur in hi boat , even when pitch about by the most riotous pervers and cross - run sea . still more strang to see him giddili perch upon the loggerhead itself , under such circumst . but the sight of littl flask mount upon gigant daggoo wa yet more curiou ; for sustain himself with a cool , indiffer , easi , unthought of , barbar majesti , the nobl negro to everi roll of the sea harmoni roll hi fine form . On hi broad back , flaxen - hair flask seem a snow - flake . the bearer look nobler than the rider . though truli vivaci , tumultu , ostentati littl flask would now and then stamp with impati ; but not one ad heav did he therebi give to the negro ' s lordli chest . So have I seen passion and vaniti stamp the live magnanim earth , but the earth did not alter her tide and her season for that . meanwhil stubb , the third mate , betray no such far - gaze solicitud . the whale might have made one of their regular sound , not a temporari dive from mere fright ; and if that were the case , stubb , as hi wont in such case , it seem , wa resolv to solac the languish interv with hi pipe . He withdrew it from hi hatband , where he alway wore it aslant like a feather . He load it , and ram home the load with hi thumb - end ; but hardli had he ignit hi match across the rough sandpap of hi hand , when tashtego , hi harpoon , whose eye had been set to windward like two fix star , suddenli drop like light from hi erect attitud to hi seat , cri out in a quick phrensi of hurri , `` down , down all , and give way ! -- there they are ! '' To a landsman , no whale , nor ani sign of a her , would have been visibl at that moment ; noth but a troubl bit of greenish white water , and thin scatter puff of vapour hover over it , and suffusingli blow off to leeward , like the confus scud from white roll billow . the air around suddenli vibrat and tingl , as it were , like the air over intens heat plate of iron . beneath thi atmospher wave and curl , and partial beneath a thin layer of water , also , the whale were swim . seen in advanc of all the other indic , the puff of vapour they spout , seem their forerun courier and detach fli outrid . all four boat were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubl water and air . but it bade fair to outstrip them ; it flew on and on , as a mass of interblend bubbl born down a rapid stream from the hill . `` pull , pull , my good boy , '' said starbuck , in the lowest possibl but intensest concentr whisper to hi men ; while the sharp fix glanc from hi eye dart straight ahead of the bow , almost seem as two visibl needl in two uner binnacl compass . He did not say much to hi crew , though , nor did hi crew say anyth to him . onli the silenc of the boat wa at interv startlingli pierc by one of hi peculiar whisper , now harsh with command , now soft with entreati . how differ the loud littl king - post . `` sing out and say someth , my hearti . roar and pull , my thunderbolt ! beach me , beach me on their black back , boy ; onli do that for me , and I ' ll sign over to you my martha ' s vineyard plantat , boy ; includ wife and children , boy . lay me on -- lay me on ! O lord , lord ! but I shall go stark , stare mad ! see ! see that white water ! '' and so shout , he pull hi hat from hi head , and stamp up and down on it ; then pick it up , flirt it far off upon the sea ; and final fell to rear and plung in the boat ' s stern like a craze colt from the prairi . `` look at that chap now , '' philosoph drawl stubb , who , with hi unlight short pipe , mechan retain between hi teeth , at a short distanc , follow after -- '' He ' s got fit , that flask ha . fit ? ye , give him fit -- that ' s the veri word -- pitch fit into ' em . merrili , merrili , heart - aliv . pud for supper , you know ; -- merri ' s the word . pull , babe -- pull , suckl -- pull , all . but what the devil are you hurri about ? softli , softli , and steadili , my men . onli pull , and keep pull ; noth more . crack all your backbon , and bite your knive in two -- that ' s all . take it easi -- whi don ' t ye take it easi , I say , and burst all your liver and lung ! '' but what it wa that inscrut ahab said to that tiger - yellow crew of hi -- these were word best omit here ; for you live under the bless light of the evangel land . onli the infidel shark in the audaci sea may give ear to such word , when , with tornado brow , and eye of red murder , and foam - glu lip , ahab leap after hi prey . meanwhil , all the boat tore on . the repeat specif allus of flask to `` that whale , '' as he call the fictiti monster which he declar to be incessantli tantal hi boat ' s bow with it tail -- these allus of hi were at time so vivid and life - like , that they would caus some one or two of hi men to snatch a fear look over the shoulder . but thi wa against all rule ; for the oarsmen must put out their eye , and ram a skewer through their neck ; usag pronounc that they must have no organ but ear , and no limb but arm , in these critic moment . It wa a sight full of quick wonder and awe ! the vast swell of the omnipot sea ; the surg , hollow roar they made , as they roll along the eight gunwal , like gigant bowl in a boundless bowl - green ; the brief suspend agoni of the boat , as it would tip for an instant on the knife - like edg of the sharper wave , that almost seem threaten to cut it in two ; the sudden profound dip into the wateri glen and hollow ; the keen spur and goad to gain the top of the opposit hill ; the headlong , sled - like slide down it other side ; -- all these , with the cri of the headsmen and harpoon , and the shudder gasp of the oarsmen , with the wondrou sight of the ivori pequod bear down upon her boat with outstretch sail , like a wild hen after her scream brood ; -- all thi wa thrill . not the raw recruit , march from the bosom of hi wife into the fever heat of hi first battl ; not the dead man ' s ghost encount the first unknown phantom in the other world ; -- neither of these can feel stranger and stronger emot than that man doe , who for the first time find himself pull into the charm , churn circl of the hunt sperm whale . the danc white water made by the chase wa now becom more and more visibl , owe to the increas dark of the dun cloud - shadow flung upon the sea . the jet of vapour no longer blend , but tilt everywher to right and left ; the whale seem separ their wake . the boat were pull more apart ; starbuck give chase to three whale run dead to leeward . our sail wa now set , and , with the still rise wind , we rush along ; the boat go with such mad through the water , that the lee oar could scarc be work rapidli enough to escap be torn from the row - lock . soon we were run through a suffus wide veil of mist ; neither ship nor boat to be seen . `` give way , men , '' whisper starbuck , draw still further aft the sheet of hi sail ; `` there is time to kill a fish yet befor the squall come . there ' s white water again ! -- close to ! spring ! '' soon after , two cri in quick success on each side of us denot that the other boat had got fast ; but hardli were they overheard , when with a lightn - like hurtl whisper starbuck said : `` stand up ! '' and queequeg , harpoon in hand , sprang to hi feet . though not one of the oarsmen wa then face the life and death peril so close to them ahead , yet with their eye on the intens counten of the mate in the stern of the boat , they knew that the immin instant had come ; they heard , too , an enorm wallow sound as of fifti eleph stir in their litter . meanwhil the boat wa still boom through the mist , the wave curl and hiss around us like the erect crest of enrag serpent . `` that ' s hi hump . there , there , give it to him ! '' whisper starbuck . A short rush sound leap out of the boat ; it wa the dart iron of queequeg . then all in one weld commot came an invis push from astern , while forward the boat seem strike on a ledg ; the sail collaps and explod ; a gush of scald vapour shot up near by ; someth roll and tumbl like an earthquak beneath us . the whole crew were half suffoc as they were toss helter - skelter into the white curdl cream of the squall . squall , whale , and harpoon had all blend togeth ; and the whale , mere graze by the iron , escap . though complet swamp , the boat wa nearli unharm . swim round it we pick up the float oar , and lash them across the gunwal , tumbl back to our place . there we sat up to our knee in the sea , the water cover everi rib and plank , so that to our downward gaze eye the suspend craft seem a coral boat grown up to us from the bottom of the ocean . the wind increas to a howl ; the wave dash their buckler togeth ; the whole squall roar , fork , and crackl around us like a white fire upon the prairi , in which , unconsum , we were burn ; immort in these jaw of death ! In vain we hail the other boat ; as well roar to the live coal down the chimney of a flame furnac as hail those boat in that storm . meanwhil the drive scud , rack , and mist , grew darker with the shadow of night ; no sign of the ship could be seen . the rise sea forbad all attempt to bale out the boat . the oar were useless as propel , perform now the offic of life - preserv . So , cut the lash of the waterproof match keg , after mani failur starbuck contriv to ignit the lamp in the lantern ; then stretch it on a waif pole , hand it to queequeg as the standard - bearer of thi forlorn hope . there , then , he sat , hold up that imbecil candl in the heart of that almighti forlorn . there , then , he sat , the sign and symbol of a man without faith , hopelessli hold up hope in the midst of despair . wet , drench through , and shiver cold , despair of ship or boat , we lift up our eye as the dawn came on . the mist still spread over the sea , the empti lantern lay crush in the bottom of the boat . suddenli queequeg start to hi feet , hollow hi hand to hi ear . We all heard a faint creak , as of rope and yard hitherto muffl by the storm . the sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick mist were dimli part by a huge , vagu form . affright , we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loom into view , bear right down upon us within a distanc of not much more than it length . float on the wave we saw the abandon boat , as for one instant it toss and gape beneath the ship ' s bow like a chip at the base of a cataract ; and then the vast hull roll over it , and it wa seen no more till it came up welter astern . again we swam for it , were dash against it by the sea , and were at last taken up and safe land on board . ere the squall came close to , the other boat had cut loos from their fish and return to the ship in good time . the ship had given us up , but wa still cruis , if hapli it might light upon some token of our perish , -- an oar or a lanc pole . chapter 49 the hyena . there are certain queer time and occas in thi strang mix affair we call life when a man take thi whole univers for a vast practic joke , though the wit thereof he but dimli discern , and more than suspect that the joke is at nobodi ' s expens but hi own . howev , noth dispirit , and noth seem worth while disput . He bolt down all event , all creed , and belief , and persuas , all hard thing visibl and invis , never mind how knobbi ; as an ostrich of potent digest gobbl down bullet and gun flint . and as for small difficulti and worri , prospect of sudden disast , peril of life and limb ; all these , and death itself , seem to him onli sli , good - natur hit , and jolli punch in the side bestow by the unseen and unaccount old joker . that odd sort of wayward mood I am speak of , come over a man onli in some time of extrem tribul ; it come in the veri midst of hi earnest , so that what just befor might have seem to him a thing most moment , now seem but a part of the gener joke . there is noth like the peril of whale to breed thi free and easi sort of genial , desperado philosophi ; and with it I now regard thi whole voyag of the pequod , and the great white whale it object . `` queequeg , '' said I , when they had drag me , the last man , to the deck , and I wa still shake myself in my jacket to fling off the water ; `` queequeg , my fine friend , doe thi sort of thing often happen ? '' without much emot , though soak through just like me , he gave me to understand that such thing did often happen . `` Mr . stubb , '' said I , turn to that worthi , who , button up in hi oil - jacket , wa now calmli smoke hi pipe in the rain ; `` Mr . stubb , I think I have heard you say that of all whalemen you ever met , our chief mate , Mr . starbuck , is by far the most care and prudent . I suppos then , that go plump on a fli whale with your sail set in a foggi squall is the height of a whaleman ' s discret ? '' `` certain . I ' ve lower for whale from a leak ship in a gale off cape horn . '' `` Mr . flask , '' said I , turn to littl king - post , who wa stand close by ; `` you are experienc in these thing , and I am not . will you tell me whether it is an unalter law in thi fisheri , Mr . flask , for an oarsman to break hi own back pull himself back - foremost into death ' s jaw ? '' `` can ' t you twist that smaller ? '' said flask . `` ye , that ' s the law . I should like to see a boat ' s crew back water up to a whale face foremost . Ha , ha ! the whale would give them squint for squint , mind that ! '' here then , from three imparti wit , I had a deliber statement of the entir case . consid , therefor , that squall and capsiz in the water and consequ bivouack on the deep , were matter of common occurr in thi kind of life ; consid that at the superl critic instant of go on to the whale I must resign my life into the hand of him who steer the boat -- oftentim a fellow who at that veri moment is in hi impetu upon the point of scuttl the craft with hi own frantic stamp ; consid that the particular disast to our own particular boat wa chiefli to be imput to starbuck ' s drive on to hi whale almost in the teeth of a squall , and consid that starbuck , notwithstand , wa famou for hi great heed in the fisheri ; consid that I belong to thi uncommonli prudent starbuck ' s boat ; and final consid in what a devil ' s chase I wa implic , touch the white whale : take all thing togeth , I say , I thought I might as well go below and make a rough draft of my will . `` queequeg , '' said I , `` come along , you shall be my lawyer , executor , and legate . '' It may seem strang that of all men sailor should be tinker at their last will and testament , but there are no peopl in the world more fond of that divers . thi wa the fourth time in my nautic life that I had done the same thing . after the ceremoni wa conclud upon the present occas , I felt all the easier ; a stone wa roll away from my heart . besid , all the day I should now live would be as good as the day that lazaru live after hi resurrect ; a supplementari clean gain of so mani month or week as the case might be . I surviv myself ; my death and burial were lock up in my chest . I look round me tranquilli and contentedli , like a quiet ghost with a clean conscienc sit insid the bar of a snug famili vault . now then , thought I , unconsci roll up the sleev of my frock , here goe for a cool , collect dive at death and destruct , and the devil fetch the hindmost . chapter 50 ahab ' s boat and crew . fedallah . `` who would have thought it , flask ! '' cri stubb ; `` if I had but one leg you would not catch me in a boat , unless mayb to stop the plug - hole with my timber toe . Oh ! he ' s a wonder old man ! '' `` I don ' t think it so strang , after all , on that account , '' said flask . `` If hi leg were off at the hip , now , it would be a differ thing . that would disabl him ; but he ha one knee , and good part of the other left , you know . '' `` I don ' t know that , my littl man ; I never yet saw him kneel . '' among whale - wise peopl it ha often been argu whether , consid the paramount import of hi life to the success of the voyag , it is right for a whale captain to jeopard that life in the activ peril of the chase . So tamerlan ' s soldier often argu with tear in their eye , whether that invalu life of hi ought to be carri into the thickest of the fight . but with ahab the question assum a modifi aspect . consid that with two leg man is but a hobbl wight in all time of danger ; consid that the pursuit of whale is alway under great and extraordinari difficulti ; that everi individu moment , inde , then compris a peril ; under these circumst is it wise for ani maim man to enter a whale - boat in the hunt ? As a gener thing , the joint - owner of the pequod must have plainli thought not . ahab well knew that although hi friend at home would think littl of hi enter a boat in certain compar harmless vicissitud of the chase , for the sake of be near the scene of action and give hi order in person , yet for captain ahab to have a boat actual apport to him as a regular headsman in the hunt -- abov all for captain ahab to be suppli with five extra men , as that same boat ' s crew , he well knew that such gener conceit never enter the head of the owner of the pequod . therefor he had not solicit a boat ' s crew from them , nor had he in ani way hint hi desir on that head . nevertheless he had taken privat measur of hi own touch all that matter . until cabaco ' s publish discoveri , the sailor had littl foreseen it , though to be sure when , after be a littl while out of port , all hand had conclud the customari busi of fit the whaleboat for servic ; when some time after thi ahab wa now and then found bestir himself in the matter of make thole - pin with hi own hand for what wa thought to be one of the spare boat , and even solicit cut the small wooden skewer , which when the line is run out are pin over the groov in the bow : when all thi wa observ in him , and particularli hi solicitud in have an extra coat of sheath in the bottom of the boat , as if to make it better withstand the point pressur of hi ivori limb ; and also the anxieti he evinc in exactli shape the thigh board , or clumsi cleat , as it is sometim call , the horizont piec in the boat ' s bow for brace the knee against in dart or stab at the whale ; when it wa observ how often he stood up in that boat with hi solitari knee fix in the semi - circular depress in the cleat , and with the carpent ' s chisel goug out a littl here and straighten it a littl there ; all these thing , I say , had awaken much interest and curios at the time . but almost everybodi suppos that thi particular prepar heed in ahab must onli be with a view to the ultim chase of mobi dick ; for he had alreadi reveal hi intent to hunt that mortal monster in person . but such a supposit did by no mean involv the remotest suspicion as to ani boat ' s crew be assign to that boat . now , with the subordin phantom , what wonder remain soon wane away ; for in a whaler wonder soon wane . besid , now and then such unaccount odd and end of strang nation come up from the unknown nook and ash - hole of the earth to man these float outlaw of whaler ; and the ship themselv often pick up such queer castaway creatur found toss about the open sea on plank , bit of wreck , oar , whaleboat , cano , blown - off japanes junk , and what not ; that beelzebub himself might climb up the side and step down into the cabin to chat with the captain , and it would not creat ani unsubdu excit in the forecastl . but be all thi as it may , certain it is that while the subordin phantom soon found their place among the crew , though still as it were somehow distinct from them , yet that hair - turban fedallah remain a muffl mysteri to the last . whenc he came in a mannerli world like thi , by what sort of unaccount tie he soon evinc himself to be link with ahab ' s peculiar fortun ; nay , so far as to have some sort of a half - hint influenc ; heaven know , but it might have been even author over him ; all thi none knew . but one can not sustain an indiffer air concern fedallah . He wa such a creatur as civil , domest peopl in the temper zone onli see in their dream , and that but dimli ; but the like of whom now and then glide among the unchang asiat commun , especi the orient isl to the east of the contin -- those insul , immemori , unalter countri , which even in these modern day still preserv much of the ghostli aborigin of earth ' s primal gener , when the memori of the first man wa a distinct recollect , and all men hi descend , unknow whenc he came , eye each other as real phantom , and ask of the sun and the moon whi they were creat and to what end ; when though , accord to genesi , the angel inde consort with the daughter of men , the devil also , add the uncanon rabbin , indulg in mundan amour . chapter 51 the spirit - spout . day , week pass , and under easi sail , the ivori pequod had slowli swept across four sever cruis - ground ; that off the azor ; off the cape de verd ; on the plate ( so call ) , be off the mouth of the rio de la plata ; and the carrol ground , an unstak , wateri local , southerli from St . helena . It wa while glide through these latter water that one seren and moonlight night , when all the wave roll by like scroll of silver ; and , by their soft , suffus seeth , made what seem a silveri silenc , not a solitud ; on such a silent night a silveri jet wa seen far in advanc of the white bubbl at the bow . lit up by the moon , it look celesti ; seem some plume and glitter god upris from the sea . fedallah first descri thi jet . for of these moonlight night , it wa hi wont to mount to the main - mast head , and stand a look - out there , with the same precis as if it had been day . and yet , though herd of whale were seen by night , not one whaleman in a hundr would ventur a lower for them . you may think with what emot , then , the seamen beheld thi old orient perch aloft at such unusu hour ; hi turban and the moon , companion in one sky . but when , after spend hi uniform interv there for sever success night without utter a singl sound ; when , after all thi silenc , hi unearthli voic wa heard announc that silveri , moon - lit jet , everi reclin marin start to hi feet as if some wing spirit had light in the rig , and hail the mortal crew . `` there she blow ! '' had the trump of judgment blown , they could not have quiver more ; yet still they felt no terror ; rather pleasur . for though it wa a most unwont hour , yet so impress wa the cri , and so deliri excit , that almost everi soul on board instinct desir a lower . walk the deck with quick , side - lung stride , ahab command the t ' gallant sail and royal to be set , and everi stunsail spread . the best man in the ship must take the helm . then , with everi mast - head man , the pile - up craft roll down befor the wind . the strang , upheav , lift tendenc of the taffrail breez fill the hollow of so mani sail , made the buoyant , hover deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rush along , as if two antagonist influenc were struggl in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingli to some horizont goal . and had you watch ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two differ thing were war . while hi one live leg made live echo along the deck , everi stroke of hi dead limb sound like a coffin - tap . On life and death thi old man walk . but though the ship so swiftli sped , and though from everi eye , like arrow , the eager glanc shot , yet the silveri jet wa no more seen that night . everi sailor swore he saw it onc , but not a second time . thi midnight - spout had almost grown a forgotten thing , when , some day after , lo ! at the same silent hour , it wa again announc : again it wa descri by all ; but upon make sail to overtak it , onc more it disappear as if it had never been . and so it serv us night after night , till no one heed it but to wonder at it . mysteri jet into the clear moonlight , or starlight , as the case might be ; disappear again for one whole day , or two day , or three ; and somehow seem at everi distinct repetit to be advanc still further and further in our van , thi solitari jet seem for ever allur us on . nor with the immemori superstit of their race , and in accord with the preternatur , as it seem , which in mani thing invest the pequod , were there want some of the seamen who swore that whenev and wherev descri ; at howev remot time , or in howev far apart latitud and longitud , that unnear spout wa cast by one self - same whale ; and that whale , mobi dick . for a time , there reign , too , a sens of peculiar dread at thi flit apparit , as if it were treacher beckon us on and on , in order that the monster might turn round upon us , and rend us at last in the remotest and most savag sea . these temporari apprehens , so vagu but so aw , deriv a wondrou potenc from the contrast seren of the weather , in which , beneath all it blue bland , some thought there lurk a devilish charm , as for day and day we voyag along , through sea so wearili , lonesom mild , that all space , in repugn to our veng errand , seem vacat itself of life befor our urn - like prow . but , at last , when turn to the eastward , the cape wind began howl around us , and we rose and fell upon the long , troubl sea that are there ; when the ivori - tusk pequod sharpli bow to the blast , and gore the dark wave in her mad , till , like shower of silver chip , the foam - flake flew over her bulwark ; then all thi desol vacuiti of life went away , but gave place to sight more dismal than befor . close to our bow , strang form in the water dart hither and thither befor us ; while thick in our rear flew the inscrut sea - raven . and everi morn , perch on our stay , row of these bird were seen ; and spite of our hoot , for a long time obstin clung to the hemp , as though they deem our ship some drift , uninhabit craft ; a thing appoint to desol , and therefor fit roost - place for their homeless selv . and heav and heav , still unrestingli heav the black sea , as if it vast tide were a conscienc ; and the great mundan soul were in anguish and remors for the long sin and suffer it had bred . cape of good hope , do they call ye ? rather cape tormentoto , as call of yore ; for long allur by the perfidi silenc that befor had attend us , we found ourselv launch into thi torment sea , where guilti be transform into those fowl and these fish , seem condemn to swim on everlastingli without ani haven in store , or beat that black air without ani horizon . but calm , snow - white , and unvari ; still direct it fountain of feather to the sky ; still beckon us on from befor , the solitari jet would at time be descri . dure all thi black of the element , ahab , though assum for the time the almost continu command of the drench and danger deck , manifest the gloomiest reserv ; and more seldom than ever address hi mate . In tempestu time like these , after everyth abov and aloft ha been secur , noth more can be done but passiv to await the issu of the gale . then captain and crew becom practic fatalist . So , with hi ivori leg insert into it accustom hole , and with one hand firmli grasp a shroud , ahab for hour and hour would stand gaze dead to windward , while an occasion squall of sleet or snow would all but congeal hi veri eyelash togeth . meantim , the crew driven from the forward part of the ship by the peril sea that burstingli broke over it bow , stood in a line along the bulwark in the waist ; and the better to guard against the leap wave , each man had slip himself into a sort of bowlin secur to the rail , in which he swung as in a loosen belt . few or no word were spoken ; and the silent ship , as if man by paint sailor in wax , day after day tore on through all the swift mad and glad of the demoniac wave . By night the same mute of human befor the shriek of the ocean prevail ; still in silenc the men swung in the bowlin ; still wordless ahab stood up to the blast . even when weari natur seem demand repos he would not seek that repos in hi hammock . never could starbuck forget the old man ' s aspect , when one night go down into the cabin to mark how the baromet stood , he saw him with close eye sit straight in hi floor - screw chair ; the rain and half - melt sleet of the storm from which he had some time befor emerg , still slowli drip from the unremov hat and coat . On the tabl besid him lay unrol one of those chart of tide and current which have previous been spoken of . hi lantern swung from hi tightli clench hand . though the bodi wa erect , the head wa thrown back so that the close eye were point toward the needl of the tell - tale that swung from a beam in the ceil . * * the cabin - compass is call the tell - tale , becaus without go to the compass at the helm , the captain , while below , can inform himself of the cours of the ship . terribl old man ! thought starbuck with a shudder , sleep in thi gale , still thou steadfastli eyest thi purpos . chapter 52 the albatross . south - eastward from the cape , off the distant crozett , a good cruis ground for right whalemen , a sail loom ahead , the goney ( albatross ) by name . As she slowli drew nigh , from my lofti perch at the fore - mast - head , I had a good view of that sight so remark to a tyro in the far ocean fisheri -- a whaler at sea , and long absent from home . As if the wave had been fuller , thi craft wa bleach like the skeleton of a strand walru . all down her side , thi spectral appear wa trace with long channel of redden rust , while all her spar and her rig were like the thick branch of tree fur over with hoar - frost . onli her lower sail were set . A wild sight it wa to see her long - beard look - out at those three mast - head . they seem clad in the skin of beast , so torn and bepatch the raiment that had surviv nearli four year of cruis . stand in iron hoop nail to the mast , they sway and swung over a fathomless sea ; and though , when the ship slowli glide close under our stern , we six men in the air came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leap from the mast - head of one ship to those of the other ; yet , those forlorn - look fishermen , mildli eye us as they pass , said not one word to our own look - out , while the quarter - deck hail wa be heard from below . `` ship ahoy ! have ye seen the white whale ? '' but as the strang captain , lean over the pallid bulwark , wa in the act of put hi trumpet to hi mouth , it somehow fell from hi hand into the sea ; and the wind now rise amain , he in vain strove to make himself heard without it . meantim hi ship wa still increas the distanc between . while in variou silent way the seamen of the pequod were evinc their observ of thi omin incid at the first mere mention of the white whale ' s name to anoth ship , ahab for a moment paus ; it almost seem as though he would have lower a boat to board the stranger , had not the threaten wind forbad . but take advantag of hi windward posit , he again seiz hi trumpet , and know by her aspect that the stranger vessel wa a nantucket and shortli bound home , he loudli hail -- '' ahoy there ! thi is the pequod , bound round the world ! tell them to address all futur letter to the pacif ocean ! and thi time three year , if I am not at home , tell them to address them to -- '' At that moment the two wake were fairli cross , and instantli , then , in accord with their singular way , shoal of small harmless fish , that for some day befor had been placidli swim by our side , dart away with what seem shudder fin , and rang themselv fore and aft with the stranger ' s flank . though in the cours of hi continu voyag ahab must often befor have notic a similar sight , yet , to ani monomaniac man , the veriest trifl caprici carri mean . `` swim away from me , do ye ? '' murmur ahab , gaze over into the water . there seem but littl in the word , but the tone convey more of deep helpless sad than the insan old man had ever befor evinc . but turn to the steersman , who thu far had been hold the ship in the wind to diminish her headway , he cri out in hi old lion voic , -- '' Up helm ! keep her off round the world ! '' round the world ! there is much in that sound to inspir proud feel ; but whereto doe all that circumnavig conduct ? onli through numberless peril to the veri point whenc we start , where those that we left behind secur , were all the time befor us . were thi world an endless plain , and by sail eastward we could for ever reach new distanc , and discov sight more sweet and strang than ani cyclad or island of king solomon , then there were promis in the voyag . but in pursuit of those far mysteri we dream of , or in torment chase of that demon phantom that , some time or other , swim befor all human heart ; while chase such over thi round globe , they either lead us on in barren maze or midway leav us whelm . chapter 53 the gam . the ostens reason whi ahab did not go on board of the whaler we had spoken wa thi : the wind and sea betoken storm . but even had thi not been the case , he would not after all , perhap , have board her -- judg by hi subsequ conduct on similar occas -- if so it had been that , by the process of hail , he had obtain a neg answer to the question he put . for , as it eventu turn out , he care not to consort , even for five minut , with ani stranger captain , except he could contribut some of that inform he so absorbingli sought . but all thi might remain inadequ estim , were not someth said here of the peculiar usag of whale - vessel when meet each other in foreign sea , and especi on a common cruis - ground . If two stranger cross the pine barren in new york state , or the equal desol salisburi plain in england ; if casual encount each other in such inhospit wild , these twain , for the life of them , can not well avoid a mutual salut ; and stop for a moment to interchang the news ; and , perhap , sit down for a while and rest in concert : then , how much more natur that upon the illimit pine barren and salisburi plain of the sea , two whale vessel descri each other at the end of the earth -- off lone fan ' s island , or the far away king ' s mill ; how much more natur , I say , that under such circumst these ship should not onli interchang hail , but come into still closer , more friendli and sociabl contact . and especi would thi seem to be a matter of cours , in the case of vessel own in one seaport , and whose captain , offic , and not a few of the men are person known to each other ; and consequ , have all sort of dear domest thing to talk about . for the long absent ship , the outward - bounder , perhap , ha letter on board ; at ani rate , she will be sure to let her have some paper of a date a year or two later than the last one on her blur and thumb - worn file . and in return for that courtesi , the outward - bound ship would receiv the latest whale intellig from the cruis - ground to which she may be destin , a thing of the utmost import to her . and in degre , all thi will hold true concern whale vessel cross each other ' s track on the cruis - ground itself , even though they are equal long absent from home . for one of them may have receiv a transfer of letter from some third , and now far remot vessel ; and some of those letter may be for the peopl of the ship she now meet . besid , they would exchang the whale news , and have an agreeabl chat . for not onli would they meet with all the sympathi of sailor , but likewis with all the peculiar congeni aris from a common pursuit and mutual share privat and peril . nor would differ of countri make ani veri essenti differ ; that is , so long as both parti speak one languag , as is the case with american and english . though , to be sure , from the small number of english whaler , such meet do not veri often occur , and when they do occur there is too apt to be a sort of shyness between them ; for your englishman is rather reserv , and your yanke , he doe not fanci that sort of thing in anybodi but himself . besid , the english whaler sometim affect a kind of metropolitan superior over the american whaler ; regard the long , lean nantucket , with hi nondescript provinci , as a sort of sea - peasant . but where thi superior in the english whalemen doe realli consist , it would be hard to say , see that the yanke in one day , collect , kill more whale than all the english , collect , in ten year . but thi is a harmless littl foibl in the english whale - hunter , which the nantucket doe not take much to heart ; probabl , becaus he know that he ha a few foibl himself . So , then , we see that of all ship separ sail the sea , the whaler have most reason to be sociabl -- and they are so . wherea , some merchant ship cross each other ' s wake in the mid - atlant , will oftentim pass on without so much as a singl word of recognit , mutual cut each other on the high sea , like a brace of dandi in broadway ; and all the time indulg , perhap , in finic critic upon each other ' s rig . As for men - of - war , when they chanc to meet at sea , they first go through such a string of silli bow and scrape , such a duck of ensign , that there doe not seem to be much right - down hearti good - will and brotherli love about it at all . As touch slave - ship meet , whi , they are in such a prodigi hurri , they run away from each other as soon as possibl . and as for pirat , when they chanc to cross each other ' s cross - bone , the first hail is -- '' how mani skull ? '' -- the same way that whaler hail -- '' how mani barrel ? '' and that question onc answer , pirat straightway steer apart , for they are infern villain on both side , and don ' t like to see overmuch of each other ' s villan like . but look at the godli , honest , unostentati , hospit , sociabl , free - and - easi whaler ! what doe the whaler do when she meet anoth whaler in ani sort of decent weather ? she ha a `` gam , '' a thing so utterli unknown to all other ship that they never heard of the name even ; and if by chanc they should hear of it , they onli grin at it , and repeat gamesom stuff about `` spouter `` and `` blubber - boiler , '' and such like pretti exclam . whi it is that all merchant - seamen , and also all pirat and man - of - war ' s men , and slave - ship sailor , cherish such a scorn feel toward whale - ship ; thi is a question it would be hard to answer . becaus , in the case of pirat , say , I should like to know whether that profess of their ha ani peculiar glori about it . It sometim end in uncommon elev , inde ; but onli at the gallow . and besid , when a man is elev in that odd fashion , he ha no proper foundat for hi superior altitud . henc , I conclud , that in boast himself to be high lift abov a whaleman , in that assert the pirat ha no solid basi to stand on . but what is a gam ? you might wear out your index - finger run up and down the column of dictionari , and never find the word . Dr . johnson never attain to that erudit ; noah webster ' s ark doe not hold it . nevertheless , thi same express word ha now for mani year been in constant use among some fifteen thousand true born yanke . certainli , it need a definit , and should be incorpor into the lexicon . with that view , let me learnedli defin it . gam . noun -- A social meet OF two ( OR more ) whaleship , gener ON A cruis - ground ; when , after exchang hail , they exchang visit BY boat ' crew ; the two captain remain , for the time , ON board OF one ship , and the two chief mate ON the other . there is anoth littl item about gam which must not be forgotten here . all profess have their own littl peculiar of detail ; so ha the whale fisheri . In a pirat , man - of - war , or slave ship , when the captain is row anywher in hi boat , he alway sit in the stern sheet on a comfort , sometim cushion seat there , and often steer himself with a pretti littl millin ' s tiller decor with gay cord and ribbon . but the whale - boat ha no seat astern , no sofa of that sort whatev , and no tiller at all . high time inde , if whale captain were wheel about the water on castor like gouti old aldermen in patent chair . and as for a tiller , the whale - boat never admit of ani such effeminaci ; and therefor as in gam a complet boat ' s crew must leav the ship , and henc as the boat steerer or harpoon is of the number , that subordin is the steersman upon the occas , and the captain , have no place to sit in , is pull off to hi visit all stand like a pine tree . and often you will notic that be consciou of the eye of the whole visibl world rest on him from the side of the two ship , thi stand captain is all aliv to the import of sustain hi digniti by maintain hi leg . nor is thi ani veri easi matter ; for in hi rear is the immens project steer oar hit him now and then in the small of hi back , the after - oar reciproc by rap hi knee in front . He is thu complet wedg befor and behind , and can onli expand himself sideway by settl down on hi stretch leg ; but a sudden , violent pitch of the boat will often go far to toppl him , becaus length of foundat is noth without correspond breadth . mere make a spread angl of two pole , and you can not stand them up . then , again , it would never do in plain sight of the world ' s rivet eye , it would never do , I say , for thi straddl captain to be seen steadi himself the slightest particl by catch hold of anyth with hi hand ; inde , as token of hi entir , buoyant self - command , he gener carri hi hand in hi trowser ' pocket ; but perhap be gener veri larg , heavi hand , he carri them there for ballast . nevertheless there have occur instanc , well authent one too , where the captain ha been known for an uncommonli critic moment or two , in a sudden squall say -- to seiz hold of the nearest oarsman ' s hair , and hold on there like grim death . chapter 54 the town - Ho ' s stori . ( AS told AT the golden inn ) the cape of good hope , and all the wateri region round about there , is much like some note four corner of a great highway , where you meet more travel than in ani other part . It wa not veri long after speak the goney that anoth homeward - bound whaleman , the town - Ho , * wa encount . she wa man almost wholli by polynesian . In the short gam that ensu she gave us strong news of mobi dick . To some the gener interest in the white whale wa now wildli heighten by a circumst of the town - Ho ' s stori , which seem obscur to involv with the whale a certain wondrou , invert visit of one of those so call judgment of god which at time are said to overtak some men . thi latter circumst , with it own particular accompani , form what may be call the secret part of the tragedi about to be narrat , never reach the ear of captain ahab or hi mate . for that secret part of the stori wa unknown to the captain of the town - Ho himself . It wa the privat properti of three confeder white seamen of that ship , one of whom , it seem , commun it to tashtego with romish injunct of secreci , but the follow night tashtego rambl in hi sleep , and reveal so much of it in that way , that when he wa waken he could not well withhold the rest . nevertheless , so potent an influenc did thi thing have on those seamen in the pequod who came to the full knowledg of it , and by such a strang delicaci , to call it so , were they govern in thi matter , that they kept the secret among themselv so that it never transpir abaft the pequod ' s main - mast . interweav in it proper place thi darker thread with the stori as publicli narrat on the ship , the whole of thi strang affair I now proceed to put on last record . * the ancient whale - cri upon first sight a whale from the mast - head , still use by whalemen in hunt the famou gallipago terrapin . for my humor ' s sake , I shall preserv the style in which I onc narrat it at lima , to a loung circl of my spanish friend , one saint ' s eve , smoke upon the thick - gilt tile piazza of the golden inn . Of those fine cavali , the young don , pedro and sebastian , were on the closer term with me ; and henc the interlud question they occasion put , and which are duli answer at the time . `` some two year prior to my first learn the event which I am about rehears to you , gentlemen , the town - Ho , sperm whaler of nantucket , wa cruis in your pacif here , not veri mani day ' sail eastward from the eav of thi good golden inn . she wa somewher to the northward of the line . one morn upon handl the pump , accord to daili usag , it wa observ that she made more water in her hold than common . they suppos a sword - fish had stab her , gentlemen . but the captain , have some unusu reason for believ that rare good luck await him in those latitud ; and therefor be veri avers to quit them , and the leak not be then consid at all danger , though , inde , they could not find it after search the hold as low down as wa possibl in rather heavi weather , the ship still continu her cruis , the marin work at the pump at wide and easi interv ; but no good luck came ; more day went by , and not onli wa the leak yet undiscov , but it sensibl increas . So much so , that now take some alarm , the captain , make all sail , stood away for the nearest harbor among the island , there to have hi hull hove out and repair . `` though no small passag wa befor her , yet , if the commonest chanc favour , he did not at all fear that hi ship would founder by the way , becaus hi pump were of the best , and be period reliev at them , those six - and - thirti men of hi could easili keep the ship free ; never mind if the leak should doubl on her . In truth , well nigh the whole of thi passag be attend by veri prosper breez , the town - Ho had all but certainli arriv in perfect safeti at her port without the occurr of the least fatal , had it not been for the brutal overbear of radney , the mate , a vineyard , and the bitterli provok vengeanc of steelkilt , a lakeman and desperado from buffalo . `` ' lakeman ! -- buffalo ! pray , what is a lakeman , and where is buffalo ? ' said don sebastian , rise in hi swing mat of grass . `` On the eastern shore of our lake eri , don ; but -- I crave your courtesi -- may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . now , gentlemen , in squar - sail brig and three - mast ship , well - nigh as larg and stout as ani that ever sail out of your old callao to far manilla ; thi lakeman , in the land - lock heart of our america , had yet been nurtur by all those agrarian freeboot impress popularli connect with the open ocean . for in their interflow aggreg , those grand fresh - water sea of our , -- eri , and ontario , and huron , and superior , and michigan , -- possess an ocean - like expans , with mani of the ocean ' s noblest trait ; with mani of it rim varieti of race and of clime . they contain round archipelago of romant isl , even as the polynesian water do ; in larg part , are shore by two great contrast nation , as the atlant is ; they furnish long maritim approach to our numer territori coloni from the east , dot all round their bank ; here and there are frown upon by batteri , and by the goat - like craggi gun of lofti mackinaw ; they have heard the fleet thunder of naval victori ; at interv , they yield their beach to wild barbarian , whose red paint face flash from out their peltri wigwam ; for leagu and leagu are flank by ancient and unent forest , where the gaunt pine stand like serri line of king in gothic genealog ; those same wood harbor wild afric beast of prey , and silken creatur whose export fur give robe to tartar emperor ; they mirror the pave capit of buffalo and cleveland , as well as winnebago villag ; they float alik the full - rig merchant ship , the arm cruiser of the state , the steamer , and the beech cano ; they are swept by borean and dismast blast as dire as ani that lash the salt wave ; they know what shipwreck are , for out of sight of land , howev inland , they have drown full mani a midnight ship with all it shriek crew . thu , gentlemen , though an inland , steelkilt wa wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtur ; as much of an audaci marin as ani . and for radney , though in hi infanc he may have laid him down on the lone nantucket beach , to nurs at hi matern sea ; though in after life he had long follow our auster atlant and your contempl pacif ; yet wa he quit as veng and full of social quarrel as the backwood seaman , fresh from the latitud of buck - horn handl bowi - knive . yet wa thi nantucket a man with some good - heart trait ; and thi lakeman , a marin , who though a sort of devil inde , might yet by inflex firm , onli temper by that common decenc of human recognit which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thu treat , thi steelkilt had long been retain harmless and docil . At all event , he had prove so thu far ; but radney wa doom and made mad , and steelkilt -- but , gentlemen , you shall hear . `` It wa not more than a day or two at the furthest after point her prow for her island haven , that the town - Ho ' s leak seem again increas , but onli so as to requir an hour or more at the pump everi day . you must know that in a settl and civil ocean like our atlant , for exampl , some skipper think littl of pump their whole way across it ; though of a still , sleepi night , should the offic of the deck happen to forget hi duti in that respect , the probabl would be that he and hi shipmat would never again rememb it , on account of all hand gentli subsid to the bottom . nor in the solitari and savag sea far from you to the westward , gentlemen , is it altogeth unusu for ship to keep clang at their pump - handl in full choru even for a voyag of consider length ; that is , if it lie along a toler access coast , or if ani other reason retreat is afford them . It is onli when a leaki vessel is in some veri out of the way part of those water , some realli landless latitud , that her captain begin to feel a littl anxiou . `` much thi way had it been with the town - Ho ; so when her leak wa found gain onc more , there wa in truth some small concern manifest by sever of her compani ; especi by radney the mate . He command the upper sail to be well hoist , sheet home anew , and everi way expand to the breez . now thi radney , I suppos , wa as littl of a coward , and as littl inclin to ani sort of nervou apprehens touch hi own person as ani fearless , unthink creatur on land or on sea that you can conveni imagin , gentlemen . therefor when he betray thi solicitud about the safeti of the ship , some of the seamen declar that it wa onli on account of hi be a part owner in her . So when they were work that even at the pump , there wa on thi head no small gamesom slili go on among them , as they stood with their feet continu overflow by the rippl clear water ; clear as ani mountain spring , gentlemen -- that bubbl from the pump ran across the deck , and pour itself out in steadi spout at the lee scupper - hole . `` now , as you well know , it is not seldom the case in thi convent world of our -- wateri or otherwis ; that when a person place in command over hi fellow - men find one of them to be veri significantli hi superior in gener pride of manhood , straightway against that man he conceiv an unconquer dislik and bitter ; and if he have a chanc he will pull down and pulver that subaltern ' s tower , and make a littl heap of dust of it . Be thi conceit of mine as it may , gentlemen , at all event steelkilt wa a tall and nobl anim with a head like a roman , and a flow golden beard like the tassel hous of your last viceroy ' s snort charger ; and a brain , and a heart , and a soul in him , gentlemen , which had made steelkilt charlemagn , had he been born son to charlemagn ' s father . but radney , the mate , wa ugli as a mule ; yet as hardi , as stubborn , as malici . He did not love steelkilt , and steelkilt knew it . `` espi the mate draw near as he wa toil at the pump with the rest , the lakeman affect not to notic him , but unaw , went on with hi gay banter . `` ' aye , aye , my merri lad , it ' s a live leak thi ; hold a cannikin , one of ye , and let ' s have a tast . By the lord , it ' s worth bottl ! I tell ye what , men , old rad ' s invest must go for it ! he had best cut away hi part of the hull and tow it home . the fact is , boy , that sword - fish onli began the job ; he ' s come back again with a gang of ship - carpent , saw - fish , and file - fish , and what not ; and the whole poss of ' em are now hard at work cut and slash at the bottom ; make improv , I suppos . If old rad were here now , I ' d tell him to jump overboard and scatter ' em . they ' re play the devil with hi estat , I can tell him . but he ' s a simpl old soul , -- rad , and a beauti too . boy , they say the rest of hi properti is invest in look - glass . I wonder if he ' d give a poor devil like me the model of hi nose . ' `` ' damn your eye ! what ' s that pump stop for ? ' roar radney , pretend not to have heard the sailor ' talk . ' thunder away at it ! ' ' aye , aye , sir , ' said steelkilt , merri as a cricket . ' live , boy , live , now ! ' and with that the pump clang like fifti fire - engin ; the men toss their hat off to it , and ere long that peculiar gasp of the lung wa heard which denot the fullest tension of life ' s utmost energi . `` quit the pump at last , with the rest of hi band , the lakeman went forward all pant , and sat himself down on the windlass ; hi face fieri red , hi eye bloodshot , and wipe the profus sweat from hi brow . now what cozen fiend it wa , gentlemen , that possess radney to meddl with such a man in that corpor exasper state , I know not ; but so it happen . intoler stride along the deck , the mate command him to get a broom and sweep down the plank , and also a shovel , and remov some offens matter consequ upon allow a pig to run at larg . `` now , gentlemen , sweep a ship ' s deck at sea is a piec of household work which in all time but rage gale is regularli attend to everi even ; it ha been known to be done in the case of ship actual founder at the time . such , gentlemen , is the inflex of sea - usag and the instinct love of neat in seamen ; some of whom would not willingli drown without first wash their face . but in all vessel thi broom busi is the prescript provinc of the boy , if boy there be aboard . besid , it wa the stronger men in the town - Ho that had been divid into gang , take turn at the pump ; and be the most athlet seaman of them all , steelkilt had been regularli assign captain of one of the gang ; consequ he should have been freed from ani trivial busi not connect with truli nautic duti , such be the case with hi comrad . I mention all these particular so that you may understand exactli how thi affair stood between the two men . `` but there wa more than thi : the order about the shovel wa almost as plainli meant to sting and insult steelkilt , as though radney had spat in hi face . ani man who ha gone sailor in a whale - ship will understand thi ; and all thi and doubtless much more , the lakeman fulli comprehend when the mate utter hi command . but as he sat still for a moment , and as he steadfastli look into the mate ' s malign eye and perceiv the stack of powder - cask heap up in him and the slow - match silent burn along toward them ; as he instinct saw all thi , that strang forbear and unwilling to stir up the deeper passion in ani alreadi ire be -- a repugn most felt , when felt at all , by realli valiant men even when aggriev -- thi nameless phantom feel , gentlemen , stole over steelkilt . `` therefor , in hi ordinari tone , onli a littl broken by the bodili exhaust he wa temporarili in , he answer him say that sweep the deck wa not hi busi , and he would not do it . and then , without at all allud to the shovel , he point to three lad as the customari sweeper ; who , not be billet at the pump , had done littl or noth all day . To thi , radney repli with an oath , in a most domin and outrag manner uncondit reiter hi command ; meanwhil advanc upon the still seat lakeman , with an uplift cooper ' s club hammer which he had snatch from a cask near by . `` heat and irrit as he wa by hi spasmod toil at the pump , for all hi first nameless feel of forbear the sweat steelkilt could but ill brook thi bear in the mate ; but somehow still smother the conflagr within him , without speak he remain doggedli root to hi seat , till at last the incens radney shook the hammer within a few inch of hi face , furious command him to do hi bid . `` steelkilt rose , and slowli retreat round the windlass , steadili follow by the mate with hi menac hammer , deliber repeat hi intent not to obey . see , howev , that hi forbear had not the slightest effect , by an aw and unspeak intim with hi twist hand he warn off the foolish and infatu man ; but it wa to no purpos . and in thi way the two went onc slowli round the windlass ; when , resolv at last no longer to retreat , bethink him that he had now forborn as much as comport with hi humor , the lakeman paus on the hatch and thu spoke to the offic : `` ' Mr . radney , I will not obey you . take that hammer away , or look to yourself . ' but the predestin mate come still closer to him , where the lakeman stood fix , now shook the heavi hammer within an inch of hi teeth ; meanwhil repeat a string of insuffer maledict . retreat not the thousandth part of an inch ; stab him in the eye with the unflinch poniard of hi glanc , steelkilt , clench hi right hand behind him and creepingli draw it back , told hi persecutor that if the hammer but graze hi cheek he ( steelkilt ) would murder him . but , gentlemen , the fool had been brand for the slaughter by the god . immedi the hammer touch the cheek ; the next instant the lower jaw of the mate wa stove in hi head ; he fell on the hatch spout blood like a whale . `` ere the cri could go aft steelkilt wa shake one of the backstay lead far aloft to where two of hi comrad were stand their masthead . they were both canal . `` ' canal ! ' cri don pedro . ' We have seen mani whale - ship in our harbour , but never heard of your canal . pardon : who and what are they ? ' `` ' canal , don , are the boatmen belong to our grand eri canal . you must have heard of it . ' `` ' nay , senor ; hereabout in thi dull , warm , most lazi , and hereditari land , we know but littl of your vigor north . ' `` ' aye ? well then , don , refil my cup . your chicha ' s veri fine ; and ere proceed further I will tell ye what our canal are ; for such inform may throw side - light upon my stori . ' `` for three hundr and sixti mile , gentlemen , through the entir breadth of the state of new york ; through numer popul citi and most thrive villag ; through long , dismal , uninhabit swamp , and affluent , cultiv field , unrival for fertil ; by billiard - room and bar - room ; through the holi - of - holi of great forest ; on roman arch over indian river ; through sun and shade ; by happi heart or broken ; through all the wide contrast sceneri of those nobl mohawk counti ; and especi , by row of snow - white chapel , whose spire stand almost like mileston , flow one continu stream of venetianli corrupt and often lawless life . there ' s your true ashante , gentlemen ; there howl your pagan ; where you ever find them , next door to you ; under the long - flung shadow , and the snug patronis lee of church . for by some curiou fatal , as it is often note of your metropolitan freeboot that they ever encamp around the hall of justic , so sinner , gentlemen , most abound in holiest vicin . `` ' Is that a friar pass ? ' said don pedro , look downward into the crowd plazza , with humor concern . `` ' well for our northern friend , dame isabella ' s inquisit wane in lima , ' laugh don sebastian . ' proce , senor . ' `` ' A moment ! pardon ! ' cri anoth of the compani . ' In the name of all us limees , I but desir to express to you , sir sailor , that we have by no mean overlook your delicaci in not substitut present lima for distant venic in your corrupt comparison . Oh ! do not bow and look surpris ; you know the proverb all along thi coast -- '' corrupt as lima . '' It but bear out your say , too ; church more plenti than billiard - tabl , and for ever open -- and `` corrupt as lima . '' So , too , venic ; I have been there ; the holi citi of the bless evangelist , St . mark ! -- St . domin , purg it ! your cup ! thank : here I refil ; now , you pour out again . ' `` freeli depict in hi own vocat , gentlemen , the canal would make a fine dramat hero , so abundantli and picturesqu wick is he . like mark antoni , for day and day along hi green - turf , floweri nile , he indol float , openli toy with hi red - cheek cleopatra , ripen hi apricot thigh upon the sunni deck . but ashor , all thi effeminaci is dash . the brigandish guis which the canal so proudli sport ; hi slouch and gaili - ribbon hat betoken hi grand featur . A terror to the smile innoc of the villag through which he float ; hi swart visag and bold swagger are not unshun in citi . onc a vagabond on hi own canal , I have receiv good turn from one of these canal ; I thank him heartili ; would fain be not ungrat ; but it is often one of the prime redeem qualiti of your man of violenc , that at time he ha as stiff an arm to back a poor stranger in a strait , as to plunder a wealthi one . In sum , gentlemen , what the wild of thi canal life is , is emphat evinc by thi ; that our wild whale - fisheri contain so mani of it most finish graduat , and that scarc ani race of mankind , except sydney men , are so much distrust by our whale captain . nor doe it at all diminish the curious of thi matter , that to mani thousand of our rural boy and young men born along it line , the probationari life of the grand canal furnish the sole transit between quietli reap in a christian corn - field , and recklessli plough the water of the most barbar sea . `` ' I see ! I see ! ' impetu exclaim don pedro , spill hi chicha upon hi silveri ruffl . ' No need to travel ! the world ' s one lima . I had thought , now , that at your temper north the gener were cold and holi as the hill . -- but the stori . ' `` I left off , gentlemen , where the lakeman shook the backstay . hardli had he done so , when he wa surround by the three junior mate and the four harpoon , who all crowd him to the deck . but slide down the rope like bale comet , the two canal rush into the uproar , and sought to drag their man out of it toward the forecastl . other of the sailor join with them in thi attempt , and a twist turmoil ensu ; while stand out of harm ' s way , the valiant captain danc up and down with a whale - pike , call upon hi offic to manhandl that atroci scoundrel , and smoke him along to the quarter - deck . At interv , he ran close up to the revolv border of the confus , and pri into the heart of it with hi pike , sought to prick out the object of hi resent . but steelkilt and hi desperado were too much for them all ; they succeed in gain the forecastl deck , where , hastili slew about three or four larg cask in a line with the windlass , these sea - parisian entrench themselv behind the barricad . `` ' come out of that , ye pirat ! ' roar the captain , now menac them with a pistol in each hand , just brought to him by the steward . ' come out of that , ye cut - throat ! ' `` steelkilt leap on the barricad , and stride up and down there , defi the worst the pistol could do ; but gave the captain to understand distinctli , that hi ( steelkilt ' s ) death would be the signal for a murder mutini on the part of all hand . fear in hi heart lest thi might prove but too true , the captain a littl desist , but still command the insurg instantli to return to their duti . `` ' will you promis not to touch us , if we do ? ' demand their ringlead . `` ' turn to ! turn to ! -- I make no promis ; -- to your duti ! Do you want to sink the ship , by knock off at a time like thi ? turn to ! ' and he onc more rais a pistol . `` ' sink the ship ? ' cri steelkilt . ' aye , let her sink . not a man of us turn to , unless you swear not to rais a rope - yarn against us . what say ye , men ? ' turn to hi comrad . A fierc cheer wa their respons . `` the lakeman now patrol the barricad , all the while keep hi eye on the captain , and jerk out such sentenc as these : -- ' It ' s not our fault ; we didn ' t want it ; I told him to take hi hammer away ; it wa boy ' s busi ; he might have known me befor thi ; I told him not to prick the buffalo ; I believ I have broken a finger here against hi curs jaw ; ain ' t those minc knive down in the forecastl there , men ? look to those handspik , my hearti . captain , by god , look to yourself ; say the word ; don ' t be a fool ; forget it all ; we are readi to turn to ; treat us decent , and we ' re your men ; but we won ' t be flog . ' `` ' turn to ! I make no promis , turn to , I say ! ' `` ' look ye , now , ' cri the lakeman , fling out hi arm toward him , ' there are a few of us here ( and I am one of them ) who have ship for the cruis , d ' ye see ; now as you well know , sir , we can claim our discharg as soon as the anchor is down ; so we don ' t want a row ; it ' s not our interest ; we want to be peaceabl ; we are readi to work , but we won ' t be flog . ' `` ' turn to ! ' roar the captain . `` steelkilt glanc round him a moment , and then said : -- ' I tell you what it is now , captain , rather than kill ye , and be hung for such a shabbi rascal , we won ' t lift a hand against ye unless ye attack us ; but till you say the word about not flog us , we don ' t do a hand ' s turn . ' `` ' down into the forecastl then , down with ye , I ' ll keep ye there till ye ' re sick of it . down ye go . ' `` ' shall we ? ' cri the ringlead to hi men . most of them were against it ; but at length , in obedi to steelkilt , they preced him down into their dark den , growlingli disappear , like bear into a cave . `` As the lakeman ' s bare head wa just level with the plank , the captain and hi poss leap the barricad , and rapidli draw over the slide of the scuttl , plant their group of hand upon it , and loudli call for the steward to bring the heavi brass padlock belong to the companionway . then open the slide a littl , the captain whisper someth down the crack , close it , and turn the key upon them -- ten in number -- leav on deck some twenti or more , who thu far had remain neutral . `` all night a wide - awak watch wa kept by all the offic , forward and aft , especi about the forecastl scuttl and fore hatchway ; at which last place it wa fear the insurg might emerg , after break through the bulkhead below . but the hour of dark pass in peac ; the men who still remain at their duti toil hard at the pump , whose clink and clank at interv through the dreari night dismal resound through the ship . `` At sunris the captain went forward , and knock on the deck , summon the prison to work ; but with a yell they refus . water wa then lower down to them , and a coupl of hand of biscuit were toss after it ; when again turn the key upon them and pocket it , the captain return to the quarter - deck . twice everi day for three day thi wa repeat ; but on the fourth morn a confus wrangl , and then a scuffl wa heard , as the customari summon wa deliv ; and suddenli four men burst up from the forecastl , say they were readi to turn to . the fetid close of the air , and a famish diet , unit perhap to some fear of ultim retribut , had constrain them to surrend at discret . embolden by thi , the captain reiter hi demand to the rest , but steelkilt shout up to him a terrif hint to stop hi babbl and betak himself where he belong . On the fifth morn three other of the mutin bolt up into the air from the desper arm below that sought to restrain them . onli three were left . `` ' better turn to , now ? ' said the captain with a heartless jeer . `` ' shut us up again , will ye ! ' cri steelkilt . `` ' Oh certainli , ' the captain , and the key click . `` It wa at thi point , gentlemen , that enrag by the defect of seven of hi former associ , and stung by the mock voic that had last hail him , and madden by hi long entomb in a place as black as the bowel of despair ; it wa then that steelkilt propos to the two canal , thu far appar of one mind with him , to burst out of their hole at the next summon of the garrison ; and arm with their keen minc knive ( long , crescent , heavi implement with a handl at each end ) run amuck from the bowsprit to the taffrail ; and if by ani devilish of desper possibl , seiz the ship . for himself , he would do thi , he said , whether they join him or not . that wa the last night he should spend in that den . but the scheme met with no opposit on the part of the other two ; they swore they were readi for that , or for ani other mad thing , for anyth in short but a surrend . and what wa more , they each insist upon be the first man on deck , when the time to make the rush should come . but to thi their leader as fierc object , reserv that prioriti for himself ; particularli as hi two comrad would not yield , the one to the other , in the matter ; and both of them could not be first , for the ladder would but admit one man at a time . and here , gentlemen , the foul play of these miscreant must come out . `` upon hear the frantic project of their leader , each in hi own separ soul had suddenli light , it would seem , upon the same piec of treacheri , name : to be foremost in break out , in order to be the first of the three , though the last of the ten , to surrend ; and therebi secur whatev small chanc of pardon such conduct might merit . but when steelkilt made known hi determin still to lead them to the last , they in some way , by some subtl chemistri of villani , mix their befor secret treacheri togeth ; and when their leader fell into a doze , verbal open their soul to each other in three sentenc ; and bound the sleeper with cord , and gag him with cord ; and shriek out for the captain at midnight . `` think murder at hand , and smell in the dark for the blood , he and all hi arm mate and harpoon rush for the forecastl . In a few minut the scuttl wa open , and , bound hand and foot , the still struggl ringlead wa shove up into the air by hi perfidi alli , who at onc claim the honour of secur a man who had been fulli ripe for murder . but all these were collar , and drag along the deck like dead cattl ; and , side by side , were seiz up into the mizzen rig , like three quarter of meat , and there they hung till morn . ' damn ye , ' cri the captain , pace to and fro befor them , ' the vultur would not touch ye , ye villain ! ' `` At sunris he summon all hand ; and separ those who had rebel from those who had taken no part in the mutini , he told the former that he had a good mind to flog them all round -- thought , upon the whole , he would do so -- he ought to -- justic demand it ; but for the present , consid their time surrend , he would let them go with a reprimand , which he accordingli administ in the vernacular . `` ' but as for you , ye carrion rogu , ' turn to the three men in the rig -- ' for you , I mean to minc ye up for the tri - pot ; ' and , seiz a rope , he appli it with all hi might to the back of the two traitor , till they yell no more , but lifelessli hung their head sideway , as the two crucifi thiev are drawn . `` ' My wrist is sprain with ye ! ' he cri , at last ; ' but there is still rope enough left for you , my fine bantam , that wouldn ' t give up . take that gag from hi mouth , and let us hear what he can say for himself . ' `` for a moment the exhaust mutin made a tremul motion of hi cramp jaw , and then pain twist round hi head , said in a sort of hiss , ' what I say is thi -- and mind it well -- if you flog me , I murder you ! ' `` ' say ye so ? then see how ye frighten me ' -- and the captain drew off with the rope to strike . `` ' best not , ' hiss the lakeman . `` ' but I must , ' -- and the rope wa onc more drawn back for the stroke . `` steelkilt here hiss out someth , inaud to all but the captain ; who , to the amaz of all hand , start back , pace the deck rapidli two or three time , and then suddenli throw down hi rope , said , ' I won ' t do it -- let him go -- cut him down : d ' ye hear ? ' but as the junior mate were hurri to execut the order , a pale man , with a bandag head , arrest them -- radney the chief mate . ever sinc the blow , he had lain in hi berth ; but that morn , hear the tumult on the deck , he had crept out , and thu far had watch the whole scene . such wa the state of hi mouth , that he could hardli speak ; but mumbl someth about hi be will and abl to do what the captain dare not attempt , he snatch the rope and advanc to hi pinion foe . `` ' you are a coward ! ' hiss the lakeman . `` ' So I am , but take that . ' the mate wa in the veri act of strike , when anoth hiss stay hi uplift arm . He paus : and then paus no more , made good hi word , spite of steelkilt ' s threat , whatev that might have been . the three men were then cut down , all hand were turn to , and , sullenli work by the moodi seamen , the iron pump clang as befor . `` just after dark that day , when one watch had retir below , a clamor wa heard in the forecastl ; and the two trembl traitor run up , besieg the cabin door , say they durst not consort with the crew . entreati , cuff , and kick could not drive them back , so at their own instanc they were put down in the ship ' s run for salvat . still , no sign of mutini reappear among the rest . On the contrari , it seem , that mainli at steelkilt ' s instig , they had resolv to maintain the strictest peac , obey all order to the last , and , when the ship reach port , desert her in a bodi . but in order to insur the speediest end to the voyag , they all agre to anoth thing -- name , not to sing out for whale , in case ani should be discov . for , spite of her leak , and spite of all her other peril , the town - Ho still maintain her mast - head , and her captain wa just as will to lower for a fish that moment , as on the day hi craft first struck the cruis ground ; and radney the mate wa quit as readi to chang hi berth for a boat , and with hi bandag mouth seek to gag in death the vital jaw of the whale . `` but though the lakeman had induc the seamen to adopt thi sort of passiv in their conduct , he kept hi own counsel ( at least till all wa over ) concern hi own proper and privat reveng upon the man who had stung him in the ventricl of hi heart . He wa in radney the chief mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatu man sought to run more than half way to meet hi doom , after the scene at the rig , he insist , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resum the head of hi watch at night . upon thi , and one or two other circumst , steelkilt systemat built the plan of hi reveng . `` dure the night , radney had an unseamanlik way of sit on the bulwark of the quarter - deck , and lean hi arm upon the gunwal of the boat which wa hoist up there , a littl abov the ship ' s side . In thi attitud , it wa well known , he sometim doze . there wa a consider vacanc between the boat and the ship , and down between thi wa the sea . steelkilt calcul hi time , and found that hi next trick at the helm would come round at two o ' clock , in the morn of the third day from that in which he had been betray . At hi leisur , he employ the interv in braid someth veri care in hi watch below . `` ' what are you make there ? ' said a shipmat . `` ' what do you think ? what doe it look like ? ' `` ' like a lanyard for your bag ; but it ' s an odd one , seem to me . ' ' ye , rather oddish , ' said the lakeman , hold it at arm ' s length befor him ; ' but I think it will answer . shipmat , I haven ' t enough twine , -- have you ani ? ' `` but there wa none in the forecastl . `` ' then I must get some from old rad ; ' and he rose to go aft . `` ' you don ' t mean to go a beg to him ! ' said a sailor . `` ' whi not ? Do you think he won ' t do me a turn , when it ' s to help himself in the end , shipmat ? ' and go to the mate , he look at him quietli , and ask him for some twine to mend hi hammock . It wa given him -- neither twine nor lanyard were seen again ; but the next night an iron ball , close net , partli roll from the pocket of the lakeman ' s monkey jacket , as he wa tuck the coat into hi hammock for a pillow . twenti - four hour after , hi trick at the silent helm -- nigh to the man who wa apt to doze over the grave alway readi dug to the seaman ' s hand -- that fatal hour wa then to come ; and in the fore - ordain soul of steelkilt , the mate wa alreadi stark and stretch as a corps , with hi forehead crush in . `` but , gentlemen , a fool save the would - be murder from the bloodi deed he had plan . yet complet reveng he had , and without be the aveng . for by a mysteri fatal , heaven itself seem to step in to take out of hi hand into it own the damn thing he would have done . `` It wa just between daybreak and sunris of the morn of the second day , when they were wash down the deck , that a stupid teneriff man , draw water in the main - chain , all at onc shout out , ' there she roll ! there she roll ! ' jesu , what a whale ! It wa mobi dick . `` ' mobi dick ! ' cri don sebastian ; ' St . domin ! sir sailor , but do whale have christen ? whom call you mobi dick ? ' `` ' A veri white , and famou , and most deadli immort monster , don ; -- but that would be too long a stori . ' `` ' how ? how ? ' cri all the young spaniard , crowd . `` ' nay , don , don -- nay , nay ! I can not rehears that now . let me get more into the air , sir . ' `` ' the chicha ! the chicha ! ' cri don pedro ; ' our vigor friend look faint ; -- fill up hi empti glass ! ' `` No need , gentlemen ; one moment , and I proceed . -- now , gentlemen , so suddenli perceiv the snowi whale within fifti yard of the ship -- forget of the compact among the crew -- in the excit of the moment , the teneriff man had instinct and involuntarili lift hi voic for the monster , though for some littl time past it had been plainli beheld from the three sullen mast - head . all wa now a phrensi . ' the white whale -- the white whale ! ' wa the cri from captain , mate , and harpoon , who , undet by fear rumour , were all anxiou to captur so famou and preciou a fish ; while the dog crew eye askanc , and with curs , the appal beauti of the vast milki mass , that lit up by a horizont spangl sun , shift and glisten like a live opal in the blue morn sea . gentlemen , a strang fatal pervad the whole career of these event , as if verili map out befor the world itself wa chart . the mutin wa the bowsman of the mate , and when fast to a fish , it wa hi duti to sit next him , while radney stood up with hi lanc in the prow , and haul in or slacken the line , at the word of command . moreov , when the four boat were lower , the mate ' s got the start ; and none howl more fierc with delight than did steelkilt , as he strain at hi oar . after a stiff pull , their harpoon got fast , and , spear in hand , radney sprang to the bow . He wa alway a furiou man , it seem , in a boat . and now hi bandag cri wa , to beach him on the whale ' s topmost back . noth loath , hi bowsman haul him up and up , through a blind foam that blent two white togeth ; till of a sudden the boat struck as against a sunken ledg , and keel over , spill out the stand mate . that instant , as he fell on the whale ' s slipperi back , the boat right , and wa dash asid by the swell , while radney wa toss over into the sea , on the other flank of the whale . He struck out through the spray , and , for an instant , wa dimli seen through that veil , wildli seek to remov himself from the eye of mobi dick . but the whale rush round in a sudden maelstrom ; seiz the swimmer between hi jaw ; and rear high up with him , plung headlong again , and went down . `` meantim , at the first tap of the boat ' s bottom , the lakeman had slacken the line , so as to drop astern from the whirlpool ; calmli look on , he thought hi own thought . but a sudden , terrif , downward jerk of the boat , quickli brought hi knife to the line . He cut it ; and the whale wa free . but , at some distanc , mobi dick rose again , with some tatter of radney ' s red woollen shirt , caught in the teeth that had destroy him . all four boat gave chase again ; but the whale elud them , and final wholli disappear . `` In good time , the town - Ho reach her port -- a savag , solitari place -- where no civil creatur resid . there , head by the lakeman , all but five or six of the foremastmen deliber desert among the palm ; eventu , as it turn out , seiz a larg doubl war - cano of the savag , and set sail for some other harbor . `` the ship ' s compani be reduc to but a hand , the captain call upon the island to assist him in the labori busi of heav down the ship to stop the leak . but to such unrest vigil over their danger alli wa thi small band of white necessit , both by night and by day , and so extrem wa the hard work they underw , that upon the vessel be readi again for sea , they were in such a weaken condit that the captain durst not put off with them in so heavi a vessel . after take counsel with hi offic , he anchor the ship as far off shore as possibl ; load and ran out hi two cannon from the bow ; stack hi musket on the poop ; and warn the island not to approach the ship at their peril , took one man with him , and set the sail of hi best whale - boat , steer straight befor the wind for tahiti , five hundr mile distant , to procur a reinforc to hi crew . `` On the fourth day of the sail , a larg cano wa descri , which seem to have touch at a low isl of coral . He steer away from it ; but the savag craft bore down on him ; and soon the voic of steelkilt hail him to heav to , or he would run him under water . the captain present a pistol . with one foot on each prow of the yoke war - cano , the lakeman laugh him to scorn ; assur him that if the pistol so much as click in the lock , he would buri him in bubbl and foam . `` ' what do you want of me ? ' cri the captain . `` ' where are you bound ? and for what are you bound ? ' demand steelkilt ; ' no lie . ' `` ' I am bound to tahiti for more men . ' `` ' veri good . let me board you a moment -- I come in peac . ' with that he leap from the cano , swam to the boat ; and climb the gunwal , stood face to face with the captain . `` ' cross your arm , sir ; throw back your head . now , repeat after me . As soon as steelkilt leav me , I swear to beach thi boat on yonder island , and remain there six day . If I do not , may lightn strike me ! ' `` ' A pretti scholar , ' laugh the lakeman . ' adio , senor ! ' and leap into the sea , he swam back to hi comrad . `` watch the boat till it wa fairli beach , and drawn up to the root of the cocoa - nut tree , steelkilt made sail again , and in due time arriv at tahiti , hi own place of destin . there , luck befriend him ; two ship were about to sail for franc , and were providenti in want of precis that number of men which the sailor head . they embark ; and so for ever got the start of their former captain , had he been at all mind to work them legal retribut . `` some ten day after the french ship sail , the whale - boat arriv , and the captain wa forc to enlist some of the more civil tahitian , who had been somewhat use to the sea . charter a small nativ schooner , he return with them to hi vessel ; and find all right there , again resum hi cruis . `` where steelkilt now is , gentlemen , none know ; but upon the island of nantucket , the widow of radney still turn to the sea which refus to give up it dead ; still in dream see the aw white whale that destroy him . `` ' are you through ? ' said don sebastian , quietli . `` ' I am , don . ' `` ' then I entreat you , tell me if to the best of your own convict , thi your stori is in substanc realli true ? It is so pass wonder ! did you get it from an unquestion sourc ? bear with me if I seem to press . ' `` ' also bear with all of us , sir sailor ; for we all join in don sebastian ' s suit , ' cri the compani , with exceed interest . `` ' Is there a copi of the holi evangelist in the golden inn , gentlemen ? ' `` ' nay , ' said don sebastian ; ' but I know a worthi priest near by , who will quickli procur one for me . I go for it ; but are you well advis ? thi may grow too seriou . ' `` ' will you be so good as to bring the priest also , don ? ' `` ' though there are no auto - da - Fe ' s in lima now , ' said one of the compani to anoth ; ' I fear our sailor friend run risk of the archiepiscopaci . let us withdraw more out of the moonlight . I see no need of thi . ' `` ' excus me for run after you , don sebastian ; but may I also beg that you will be particular in procur the largest size evangelist you can . ' ' thi is the priest , he bring you the evangelist , ' said don sebastian , grave , return with a tall and solemn figur . `` ' let me remov my hat . now , vener priest , further into the light , and hold the holi book befor me that I may touch it . `` ' So help me heaven , and on my honour the stori I have told ye , gentlemen , is in substanc and it great item , true . I know it to be true ; it happen on thi ball ; I trod the ship ; I knew the crew ; I have seen and talk with steelkilt sinc the death of radney . ' '' chapter 55 Of the monstrou pictur of whale . I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canva , someth like the true form of the whale as he actual appear to the eye of the whaleman when in hi own absolut bodi the whale is moor alongsid the whale - ship so that he can be fairli step upon there . It may be worth while , therefor , previous to advert to those curiou imaginari portrait of him which even down to the present day confid challeng the faith of the landsman . It is time to set the world right in thi matter , by prove such pictur of the whale all wrong . It may be that the primal sourc of all those pictori delus will be found among the oldest hindoo , egyptian , and grecian sculptur . for ever sinc those invent but unscrupul time when on the marbl panel of templ , the pedest of statu , and on shield , medallion , cup , and coin , the dolphin wa drawn in scale of chain - armor like saladin ' s , and a helmet head like St . georg ' s ; ever sinc then ha someth of the same sort of licens prevail , not onli in most popular pictur of the whale , but in mani scientif present of him . now , by all odd , the most ancient extant portrait anyway purport to be the whale ' s , is to be found in the famou cavern - pagoda of elephanta , in india . the brahmin maintain that in the almost endless sculptur of that immemori pagoda , all the trade and pursuit , everi conceiv avoc of man , were prefigur age befor ani of them actual came into be . No wonder then , that in some sort our nobl profess of whale should have been there shadow forth . the hindoo whale refer to , occur in a separ depart of the wall , depict the incarn of vishnu in the form of leviathan , learnedli known as the mats avatar . but though thi sculptur is half man and half whale , so as onli to give the tail of the latter , yet that small section of him is all wrong . It look more like the taper tail of an anaconda , than the broad palm of the true whale ' s majest fluke . but go to the old galleri , and look now at a great christian painter ' s portrait of thi fish ; for he succe no better than the antediluvian hindoo . It is guido ' s pictur of perseu rescu andromeda from the sea - monster or whale . where did guido get the model of such a strang creatur as that ? nor doe hogarth , in paint the same scene in hi own `` perseu descend , '' make out one whit better . the huge corpul of that hogarthian monster undul on the surfac , scarc draw one inch of water . It ha a sort of howdah on it back , and it distend tusk mouth into which the billow are roll , might be taken for the traitor ' gate lead from the thame by water into the tower . then , there are the prodromu whale of old scotch sibbald , and jonah ' s whale , as depict in the print of old bibl and the cut of old primer . what shall be said of these ? As for the book - binder ' s whale wind like a vine - stalk round the stock of a descend anchor -- as stamp and gild on the back and titl - page of mani book both old and new -- that is a veri picturesqu but pure fabul creatur , imit , I take it , from the like figur on antiqu vase . though univers denomin a dolphin , I nevertheless call thi book - binder ' s fish an attempt at a whale ; becaus it wa so intend when the devic wa first introduc . It wa introduc by an old italian publish somewher about the 15th centuri , dure the reviv of learn ; and in those day , and even down to a compar late period , dolphin were popularli suppos to be a speci of the leviathan . In the vignett and other embellish of some ancient book you will at time meet with veri curiou touch at the whale , where all manner of spout , jet d ' eau , hot spring and cold , saratoga and baden - baden , come bubbl up from hi unexhaust brain . In the titl - page of the origin edit of the `` advanc of learn `` you will find some curiou whale . but quit all these unprofession attempt , let us glanc at those pictur of leviathan purport to be sober , scientif delin , by those who know . In old harri ' s collect of voyag there are some plate of whale extract from a dutch book of voyag , A . D . 1671 , entitl `` A whale voyag to spitzbergen in the ship jona in the whale , peter peterson of friesland , master . '' In one of those plate the whale , like great raft of log , are repres lie among ice - isl , with white bear run over their live back . In anoth plate , the prodigi blunder is made of repres the whale with perpendicular fluke . then again , there is an impos quarto , written by one captain colnett , a post captain in the english navi , entitl `` A voyag round cape horn into the south sea , for the purpos of extend the spermaceti whale fisheri . '' In thi book is an outlin purport to be a `` pictur of a physet or spermaceti whale , drawn by scale from one kill on the coast of mexico , august , 1793 , and hoist on deck . '' I doubt not the captain had thi veraci pictur taken for the benefit of hi marin . To mention but one thing about it , let me say that it ha an eye which appli , accord to the accompani scale , to a full grown sperm whale , would make the eye of that whale a bow - window some five feet long . Ah , my gallant captain , whi did ye not give us jonah look out of that eye ! nor are the most conscienti compil of natur histori for the benefit of the young and tender , free from the same heinous of mistak . look at that popular work `` goldsmith ' s anim natur . '' In the abridg london edit of 1807 , there are plate of an alleg `` whale `` and a `` narwhal . '' I do not wish to seem ineleg , but thi unsightli whale look much like an amput sow ; and , as for the narwhal , one glimps at it is enough to amaz one , that in thi nineteenth centuri such a hippogriff could be palm for genuin upon ani intellig public of schoolboy . then , again , in 1825 , bernard germain , count de laceped , a great naturalist , publish a scientif system whale book , wherein are sever pictur of the differ speci of the leviathan . all these are not onli incorrect , but the pictur of the mysticetu or greenland whale ( that is to say , the right whale ) , even scoresbi , a long experienc man as touch that speci , declar not to have it counterpart in natur . but the place of the cap - sheaf to all thi blunder busi wa reserv for the scientif frederick cuvier , brother to the famou baron . In 1836 , he publish a natur histori of whale , in which he give what he call a pictur of the sperm whale . befor show that pictur to ani nantucket , you had best provid for your summari retreat from nantucket . In a word , frederick cuvier ' s sperm whale is not a sperm whale , but a squash . Of cours , he never had the benefit of a whale voyag ( such men seldom have ) , but whenc he deriv that pictur , who can tell ? perhap he got it as hi scientif predecessor in the same field , desmarest , got one of hi authent abort ; that is , from a chines draw . and what sort of live lad with the pencil those chines are , mani queer cup and saucer inform us . As for the sign - painter ' whale seen in the street hang over the shop of oil - dealer , what shall be said of them ? they are gener richard iii . whale , with dromedari hump , and veri savag ; breakfast on three or four sailor tart , that is whaleboat full of marin : their deform flounder in sea of blood and blue paint . but these manifold mistak in depict the whale are not so veri surpris after all . consid ! most of the scientif draw have been taken from the strand fish ; and these are about as correct as a draw of a wreck ship , with broken back , would correctli repres the nobl anim itself in all it undash pride of hull and spar . though eleph have stood for their full - length , the live leviathan ha never yet fairli float himself for hi portrait . the live whale , in hi full majesti and signific , is onli to be seen at sea in unfathom water ; and afloat the vast bulk of him is out of sight , like a launch line - of - battl ship ; and out of that element it is a thing etern imposs for mortal man to hoist him bodili into the air , so as to preserv all hi mighti swell and undul . and , not to speak of the highli presum differ of contour between a young suck whale and a full - grown platonian leviathan ; yet , even in the case of one of those young suck whale hoist to a ship ' s deck , such is then the outlandish , eel - like , limber , vari shape of him , that hi precis express the devil himself could not catch . but it may be fanci , that from the nake skeleton of the strand whale , accur hint may be deriv touch hi true form . not at all . for it is one of the more curiou thing about thi leviathan , that hi skeleton give veri littl idea of hi gener shape . though jeremi bentham ' s skeleton , which hang for candelabra in the librari of one of hi executor , correctli convey the idea of a burli - brow utilitarian old gentleman , with all jeremi ' s other lead person characterist ; yet noth of thi kind could be infer from ani leviathan ' s articul bone . In fact , as the great hunter say , the mere skeleton of the whale bear the same relat to the fulli invest and pad anim as the insect doe to the chrysali that so roundingli envelop it . thi peculiar is strikingli evinc in the head , as in some part of thi book will be incident shown . It is also veri curious display in the side fin , the bone of which almost exactli answer to the bone of the human hand , minu onli the thumb . thi fin ha four regular bone - finger , the index , middl , ring , and littl finger . but all these are perman lodg in their fleshi cover , as the human finger in an artifici cover . `` howev recklessli the whale may sometim serv us , '' said humor stubb one day , `` he can never be truli said to handl us without mitten . '' for all these reason , then , ani way you may look at it , you must need conclud that the great leviathan is that one creatur in the world which must remain unpaint to the last . true , one portrait may hit the mark much nearer than anoth , but none can hit it with ani veri consider degre of exact . So there is no earthli way of find out precis what the whale realli look like . and the onli mode in which you can deriv even a toler idea of hi live contour , is by go a whale yourself ; but by so do , you run no small risk of be etern stove and sunk by him . wherefor , it seem to me you had best not be too fastidi in your curios touch thi leviathan . chapter 56 Of the less erron pictur of whale , and the true pictur of whale scene . In connexion with the monstrou pictur of whale , I am strongli tempt here to enter upon those still more monstrou stori of them which are to be found in certain book , both ancient and modern , especi in plini , purcha , hackluyt , harri , cuvier , etc . but I pass that matter by . I know of onli four publish outlin of the great sperm whale ; colnett ' s , huggin ' s , frederick cuvier ' s , and beal ' s . In the previou chapter colnett and cuvier have been refer to . huggin ' s is far better than their ; but , by great odd , beal ' s is the best . all beal ' s draw of thi whale are good , except the middl figur in the pictur of three whale in variou attitud , cap hi second chapter . hi frontispiec , boat attack sperm whale , though no doubt calcul to excit the civil sceptic of some parlor men , is admir correct and life - like in it gener effect . some of the sperm whale draw in J . ross brown are pretti correct in contour ; but they are wretchedli engrav . that is not hi fault though . Of the right whale , the best outlin pictur are in scoresbi ; but they are drawn on too small a scale to convey a desir impress . He ha but one pictur of whale scene , and thi is a sad defici , becaus it is by such pictur onli , when at all well done , that you can deriv anyth like a truth idea of the live whale as seen by hi live hunter . but , taken for all in all , by far the finest , though in some detail not the most correct , present of whale and whale scene to be anywher found , are two larg french engrav , well execut , and taken from paint by one garneri . respect , they repres attack on the sperm and right whale . In the first engrav a nobl sperm whale is depict in full majesti of might , just risen beneath the boat from the profund of the ocean , and bear high in the air upon hi back the terrif wreck of the stoven plank . the prow of the boat is partial unbroken , and is drawn just balanc upon the monster ' s spine ; and stand in that prow , for that one singl incomput flash of time , you behold an oarsman , half shroud by the incens boil spout of the whale , and in the act of leap , as if from a precipic . the action of the whole thing is wonder good and true . the half - empti line - tub float on the whiten sea ; the wooden pole of the spill harpoon obliqu bob in it ; the head of the swim crew are scatter about the whale in contrast express of affright ; while in the black stormi distanc the ship is bear down upon the scene . seriou fault might be found with the anatom detail of thi whale , but let that pass ; sinc , for the life of me , I could not draw so good a one . In the second engrav , the boat is in the act of draw alongsid the barnacl flank of a larg run right whale , that roll hi black weedi bulk in the sea like some mossi rock - slide from the patagonian cliff . hi jet are erect , full , and black like soot ; so that from so abound a smoke in the chimney , you would think there must be a brave supper cook in the great bowel below . sea fowl are peck at the small crab , shell - fish , and other sea candi and maccaroni , which the right whale sometim carri on hi pestil back . and all the while the thick - lip leviathan is rush through the deep , leav ton of tumultu white curd in hi wake , and caus the slight boat to rock in the swell like a skiff caught nigh the paddl - wheel of an ocean steamer . thu , the foreground is all rage commot ; but behind , in admir artist contrast , is the glassi level of a sea becalm , the droop unstarch sail of the powerless ship , and the inert mass of a dead whale , a conquer fortress , with the flag of captur lazili hang from the whale - pole insert into hi spout - hole . who garneri the painter is , or wa , I know not . but my life for it he wa either practic convers with hi subject , or els marvel tutor by some experienc whaleman . the french are the lad for paint action . Go and gaze upon all the paint of europ , and where will you find such a galleri of live and breath commot on canva , as in that triumphal hall at versail ; where the behold fight hi way , pell - mell , through the consecut great battl of franc ; where everi sword seem a flash of the northern light , and the success arm king and emperor dash by , like a charg of crown centaur ? not wholli unworthi of a place in that galleri , are these sea battl - piec of garneri . the natur aptitud of the french for seiz the picturesqu of thing seem to be peculiarli evinc in what paint and engrav they have of their whale scene . with not one tenth of england ' s experi in the fisheri , and not the thousandth part of that of the american , they have nevertheless furnish both nation with the onli finish sketch at all capabl of convey the real spirit of the whale hunt . for the most part , the english and american whale draughtsmen seem entir content with present the mechan outlin of thing , such as the vacant profil of the whale ; which , so far as picturesqu of effect is concern , is about tantamount to sketch the profil of a pyramid . even scoresbi , the justli renown right whaleman , after give us a stiff full length of the greenland whale , and three or four delic miniatur of narwhal and porpois , treat us to a seri of classic engrav of boat hook , chop knive , and grapnel ; and with the microscop dilig of a leuwenhoeck submit to the inspect of a shiver world nineti - six fac - simil of magnifi arctic snow crystal . I mean no disparag to the excel voyag ( I honour him for a veteran ) , but in so import a matter it wa certainli an oversight not to have procur for everi crystal a sworn affidavit taken befor a greenland justic of the peac . In addit to those fine engrav from garneri , there are two other french engrav worthi of note , by some one who subscrib himself `` H . durand . '' one of them , though not precis adapt to our present purpos , nevertheless deserv mention on other account . It is a quiet noon - scene among the isl of the pacif ; a french whaler anchor , inshor , in a calm , and lazili take water on board ; the loosen sail of the ship , and the long leav of the palm in the background , both droop togeth in the breezeless air . the effect is veri fine , when consid with refer to it present the hardi fishermen under one of their few aspect of orient repos . the other engrav is quit a differ affair : the ship hove - to upon the open sea , and in the veri heart of the leviathan life , with a right whale alongsid ; the vessel ( in the act of cut - in ) hove over to the monster as if to a quay ; and a boat , hurriedli push off from thi scene of activ , is about give chase to whale in the distanc . the harpoon and lanc lie level for use ; three oarsmen are just set the mast in it hole ; while from a sudden roll of the sea , the littl craft stand half - erect out of the water , like a rear hors . from the ship , the smoke of the torment of the boil whale is go up like the smoke over a villag of smithi ; and to windward , a black cloud , rise up with earnest of squall and rain , seem to quicken the activ of the excit seamen . chapter 57 Of whale in paint ; in teeth ; in wood ; in sheet - iron ; in stone ; in mountain ; in star . On tower - hill , as you go down to the london dock , you may have seen a crippl beggar ( or kedger , as the sailor say ) hold a paint board befor him , repres the tragic scene in which he lost hi leg . there are three whale and three boat ; and one of the boat ( presum to contain the miss leg in all it origin integr ) is be crunch by the jaw of the foremost whale . ani time these ten year , they tell me , ha that man held up that pictur , and exhibit that stump to an incredul world . but the time of hi justif ha now come . hi three whale are as good whale as were ever publish in wap , at ani rate ; and hi stump as unquestion a stump as ani you will find in the western clear . but , though for ever mount on that stump , never a stump - speech doe the poor whaleman make ; but , with downcast eye , stand ruefulli contempl hi own amput . throughout the pacif , and also in nantucket , and new bedford , and sag harbor , you will come across live sketch of whale and whale - scene , graven by the fishermen themselv on sperm whale - teeth , or ladi ' busk wrought out of the right whale - bone , and other like skrimshand articl , as the whalemen call the numer littl ingeni contriv they elabor carv out of the rough materi , in their hour of ocean leisur . some of them have littl box of dentist - look implement , special intend for the skrimshand busi . but , in gener , they toil with their jack - knive alon ; and , with that almost omnipot tool of the sailor , they will turn you out anyth you pleas , in the way of a marin ' s fanci . long exil from christendom and civil inevit restor a man to that condit in which god place him , i . e . what is call savageri . your true whale - hunter is as much a savag as an iroquoi . I myself am a savag , own no allegi but to the king of the cannib ; and readi at ani moment to rebel against him . now , one of the peculiar characterist of the savag in hi domest hour , is hi wonder patienc of industri . An ancient hawaiian war - club or spear - paddl , in it full multipl and elabor of carv , is as great a trophi of human persever as a latin lexicon . for , with but a bit of broken sea - shell or a shark ' s tooth , that miracul intricaci of wooden net - work ha been achiev ; and it ha cost steadi year of steadi applic . As with the hawaiian savag , so with the white sailor - savag . with the same marvel patienc , and with the same singl shark ' s tooth , of hi one poor jack - knife , he will carv you a bit of bone sculptur , not quit as workmanlik , but as close pack in it mazi of design , as the greek savag , achil ' s shield ; and full of barbar spirit and suggest , as the print of that fine old dutch savag , albert durer . wooden whale , or whale cut in profil out of the small dark slab of the nobl south sea war - wood , are frequent met with in the forecastl of american whaler . some of them are done with much accuraci . At some old gabl - roof countri hous you will see brass whale hung by the tail for knocker to the road - side door . when the porter is sleepi , the anvil - head whale would be best . but these knock whale are seldom remark as faith essay . On the spire of some old - fashion church you will see sheet - iron whale place there for weather - cock ; but they are so elev , and besid that are to all intent and purpos so label with `` hand off ! '' you can not examin them close enough to decid upon their merit . In boni , ribbi region of the earth , where at the base of high broken cliff mass of rock lie strewn in fantast group upon the plain , you will often discov imag as of the petrifi form of the leviathan partli merg in grass , which of a windi day break against them in a surf of green surg . then , again , in mountain countri where the travel is continu girdl by amphitheatr height ; here and there from some lucki point of view you will catch pass glimps of the profil of whale defin along the undul ridg . but you must be a thorough whaleman , to see these sight ; and not onli that , but if you wish to return to such a sight again , you must be sure and take the exact intersect latitud and longitud of your first stand - point , els so chanc - like are such observ of the hill , that your precis , previou stand - point would requir a labori re - discoveri ; like the soloma island , which still remain incognita , though onc high - ruf mendanna trod them and old figuera chronicl them . nor when expandingli lift by your subject , can you fail to trace out great whale in the starri heaven , and boat in pursuit of them ; as when long fill with thought of war the eastern nation saw armi lock in battl among the cloud . thu at the north have I chase leviathan round and round the pole with the revolut of the bright point that first defin him to me . and beneath the effulg antarct sky I have board the argo - navi , and join the chase against the starri cetu far beyond the utmost stretch of hydru and the fli fish . with a frigat ' s anchor for my bridl - bitt and fasc of harpoon for spur , would I could mount that whale and leap the topmost sky , to see whether the fabl heaven with all their countless tent realli lie encamp beyond my mortal sight ! chapter 58 brit . steer north - eastward from the crozett , we fell in with vast meadow of brit , the minut , yellow substanc , upon which the right whale larg feed . for leagu and leagu it undul round us , so that we seem to be sail through boundless field of ripe and golden wheat . On the second day , number of right whale were seen , who , secur from the attack of a sperm whaler like the pequod , with open jaw sluggishli swam through the brit , which , adher to the fring fibr of that wondrou venetian blind in their mouth , wa in that manner separ from the water that escap at the lip . As morn mower , who side by side slowli and seethingli advanc their scyth through the long wet grass of marshi mead ; even so these monster swam , make a strang , grassi , cut sound ; and leav behind them endless swath of blue upon the yellow sea . * * that part of the sea known among whalemen as the `` brazil bank `` doe not bear that name as the bank of newfoundland do , becaus of there be shallow and sound there , but becaus of thi remark meadow - like appear , caus by the vast drift of brit continu float in those latitud , where the right whale is often chase . but it wa onli the sound they made as they part the brit which at all remind one of mower . seen from the mast - head , especi when they paus and were stationari for a while , their vast black form look more like lifeless mass of rock than anyth els . and as in the great hunt countri of india , the stranger at a distanc will sometim pass on the plain recumb eleph without know them to be such , take them for bare , blacken elev of the soil ; even so , often , with him , who for the first time behold thi speci of the leviathan of the sea . and even when recognis at last , their immens magnitud render it veri hard realli to believ that such bulki mass of overgrowth can possibl be instinct , in all part , with the same sort of life that live in a dog or a hors . inde , in other respect , you can hardli regard ani creatur of the deep with the same feel that you do those of the shore . for though some old naturalist have maintain that all creatur of the land are of their kind in the sea ; and though take a broad gener view of the thing , thi may veri well be ; yet come to specialti , where , for exampl , doe the ocean furnish ani fish that in disposit answer to the sagaci kind of the dog ? the accurs shark alon can in ani gener respect be said to bear compar analog to him . but though , to landsmen in gener , the nativ inhabit of the sea have ever been regard with emot unspeak unsoci and repel ; though we know the sea to be an everlast terra incognita , so that columbu sail over numberless unknown world to discov hi one superfici western one ; though , by vast odd , the most terrif of all mortal disast have immemori and indiscrimin befallen ten and hundr of thousand of those who have gone upon the water ; though but a moment ' s consider will teach , that howev babi man may brag of hi scienc and skill , and howev much , in a flatter futur , that scienc and skill may augment ; yet for ever and for ever , to the crack of doom , the sea will insult and murder him , and pulver the stateliest , stiffest frigat he can make ; nevertheless , by the continu repetit of these veri impress , man ha lost that sens of the full aw of the sea which aborigin belong to it . the first boat we read of , float on an ocean , that with portugues vengeanc had whelm a whole world without leav so much as a widow . that same ocean roll now ; that same ocean destroy the wreck ship of last year . yea , foolish mortal , noah ' s flood is not yet subsid ; two third of the fair world it yet cover . wherein differ the sea and the land , that a miracl upon one is not a miracl upon the other ? preternatur terror rest upon the hebrew , when under the feet of korah and hi compani the live ground open and swallow them up for ever ; yet not a modern sun ever set , but in precis the same manner the live sea swallow up ship and crew . but not onli is the sea such a foe to man who is an alien to it , but it is also a fiend to it own off - spring ; wors than the persian host who murder hi own guest ; spare not the creatur which itself hath spawn . like a savag tigress that toss in the jungl overlay her own cub , so the sea dash even the mightiest whale against the rock , and leav them there side by side with the split wreck of ship . No merci , no power but it own control it . pant and snort like a mad battl steed that ha lost it rider , the masterless ocean overrun the globe . consid the subtl of the sea ; how it most dread creatur glide under water , unappar for the most part , and treacher hidden beneath the loveliest tint of azur . consid also the devilish brillianc and beauti of mani of it most remorseless tribe , as the dainti embellish shape of mani speci of shark . consid , onc more , the univers cannib of the sea ; all whose creatur prey upon each other , carri on etern war sinc the world began . consid all thi ; and then turn to thi green , gentl , and most docil earth ; consid them both , the sea and the land ; and do you not find a strang analog to someth in yourself ? for as thi appal ocean surround the verdant land , so in the soul of man there lie one insular tahiti , full of peac and joy , but encompass by all the horror of the half known life . god keep thee ! push not off from that isl , thou canst never return ! chapter 59 squid . slowli wade through the meadow of brit , the pequod still held on her way north - eastward toward the island of java ; a gentl air impel her keel , so that in the surround seren her three tall taper mast mildli wave to that languid breez , as three mild palm on a plain . and still , at wide interv in the silveri night , the lone , allur jet would be seen . but one transpar blue morn , when a still almost preternatur spread over the sea , howev unattend with ani stagnant calm ; when the long burnish sun - glade on the water seem a golden finger laid across them , enjoin some secreci ; when the slipper wave whisper togeth as they softli ran on ; in thi profound hush of the visibl sphere a strang spectr wa seen by daggoo from the main - mast - head . In the distanc , a great white mass lazili rose , and rise higher and higher , and disentangl itself from the azur , at last gleam befor our prow like a snow - slide , new slid from the hill . thu glisten for a moment , as slowli it subsid , and sank . then onc more aros , and silent gleam . It seem not a whale ; and yet is thi mobi dick ? thought daggoo . again the phantom went down , but on re - appear onc more , with a stiletto - like cri that startl everi man from hi nod , the negro yell out -- '' there ! there again ! there she breach ! right ahead ! the white whale , the white whale ! '' upon thi , the seamen rush to the yard - arm , as in swarm - time the bee rush to the bough . bare - head in the sultri sun , ahab stood on the bowsprit , and with one hand push far behind in readi to wave hi order to the helmsman , cast hi eager glanc in the direct indic aloft by the outstretch motionless arm of daggoo . whether the flit attend of the one still and solitari jet had gradual work upon ahab , so that he wa now prepar to connect the idea of mild and repos with the first sight of the particular whale he pursu ; howev thi wa , or whether hi eager betray him ; whichev way it might have been , no sooner did he distinctli perceiv the white mass , than with a quick intens he instantli gave order for lower . the four boat were soon on the water ; ahab ' s in advanc , and all swiftli pull toward their prey . soon it went down , and while , with oar suspend , we were await it reappear , lo ! in the same spot where it sank , onc more it slowli rose . almost forget for the moment all thought of mobi dick , we now gaze at the most wondrou phenomenon which the secret sea have hitherto reveal to mankind . A vast pulpi mass , furlong in length and breadth , of a glanc cream - colour , lay float on the water , innumer long arm radiat from it centr , and curl and twist like a nest of anaconda , as if blindli to clutch at ani hapless object within reach . No percept face or front did it have ; no conceiv token of either sensat or instinct ; but undul there on the billow , an unearthli , formless , chanc - like apparit of life . As with a low suck sound it slowli disappear again , starbuck still gaze at the agit water where it had sunk , with a wild voic exclaim -- '' almost rather had I seen mobi dick and fought him , than to have seen thee , thou white ghost ! '' `` what wa it , sir ? '' said flask . `` the great live squid , which , they say , few whale - ship ever beheld , and return to their port to tell of it . '' but ahab said noth ; turn hi boat , he sail back to the vessel ; the rest as silent follow . whatev superstit the sperm whalemen in gener have connect with the sight of thi object , certain it is , that a glimps of it be so veri unusu , that circumst ha gone far to invest it with portent . So rare is it beheld , that though one and all of them declar it to be the largest anim thing in the ocean , yet veri few of them have ani but the most vagu idea concern it true natur and form ; notwithstand , they believ it to furnish to the sperm whale hi onli food . for though other speci of whale find their food abov water , and may be seen by man in the act of feed , the spermaceti whale obtain hi whole food in unknown zone below the surfac ; and onli by infer is it that ani one can tell of what , precis , that food consist . At time , when close pursu , he will disgorg what are suppos to be the detach arm of the squid ; some of them thu exhibit exceed twenti and thirti feet in length . they fanci that the monster to which these arm belong ordinarili cling by them to the bed of the ocean ; and that the sperm whale , unlik other speci , is suppli with teeth in order to attack and tear it . there seem some ground to imagin that the great kraken of bishop pontoppodan may ultim resolv itself into squid . the manner in which the bishop describ it , as altern rise and sink , with some other particular he narrat , in all thi the two correspond . but much abat is necessari with respect to the incred bulk he assign it . By some naturalist who have vagu heard rumor of the mysteri creatur , here spoken of , it is includ among the class of cuttl - fish , to which , inde , in certain extern respect it would seem to belong , but onli as the anak of the tribe . chapter 60 the line . with refer to the whale scene shortli to be describ , as well as for the better understand of all similar scene elsewher present , I have here to speak of the magic , sometim horribl whale - line . the line origin use in the fisheri wa of the best hemp , slightli vapour with tar , not impregn with it , as in the case of ordinari rope ; for while tar , as ordinarili use , make the hemp more pliabl to the rope - maker , and also render the rope itself more conveni to the sailor for common ship use ; yet , not onli would the ordinari quantiti too much stiffen the whale - line for the close coil to which it must be subject ; but as most seamen are begin to learn , tar in gener by no mean add to the rope ' s durabl or strength , howev much it may give it compact and gloss . Of late year the manilla rope ha in the american fisheri almost entir supersed hemp as a materi for whale - line ; for , though not so durabl as hemp , it is stronger , and far more soft and elast ; and I will add ( sinc there is an aesthet in all thing ) , is much more handsom and becom to the boat , than hemp . hemp is a duski , dark fellow , a sort of indian ; but manilla is as a golden - hair circassian to behold . the whale - line is onli two - third of an inch in thick . At first sight , you would not think it so strong as it realli is . By experi it one and fifti yarn will each suspend a weight of one hundr and twenti pound ; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearli equal to three ton . In length , the common sperm whale - line measur someth over two hundr fathom . toward the stern of the boat it is spiral coil away in the tub , not like the worm - pipe of a still though , but so as to form one round , chees - shape mass of dens bed `` sheav , '' or layer of concentr spiral , without ani hollow but the `` heart , '' or minut vertic tube form at the axi of the chees . As the least tangl or kink in the coil would , in run out , infal take somebodi ' s arm , leg , or entir bodi off , the utmost precaut is use in stow the line in it tub . some harpoon will consum almost an entir morn in thi busi , carri the line high aloft and then reev it downward through a block toward the tub , so as in the act of coil to free it from all possibl wrinkl and twist . In the english boat two tub are use instead of one ; the same line be continu coil in both tub . there is some advantag in thi ; becaus these twin - tub be so small they fit more readili into the boat , and do not strain it so much ; wherea , the american tub , nearli three feet in diamet and of proportion depth , make a rather bulki freight for a craft whose plank are but one half - inch in thick ; for the bottom of the whale - boat is like critic ice , which will bear up a consider distribut weight , but not veri much of a concentr one . when the paint canva cover is clap on the american line - tub , the boat look as if it were pull off with a prodigi great wed - cake to present to the whale . both end of the line are expos ; the lower end termin in an eye - splice or loop come up from the bottom against the side of the tub , and hang over it edg complet disengag from everyth . thi arrang of the lower end is necessari on two account . first : In order to facilit the fasten to it of an addit line from a neighbor boat , in case the stricken whale should sound so deep as to threaten to carri off the entir line origin attach to the harpoon . In these instanc , the whale of cours is shift like a mug of ale , as it were , from the one boat to the other ; though the first boat alway hover at hand to assist it consort . second : thi arrang is indispens for common safeti ' s sake ; for were the lower end of the line in ani way attach to the boat , and were the whale then to run the line out to the end almost in a singl , smoke minut as he sometim doe , he would not stop there , for the doom boat would infal be drag down after him into the profund of the sea ; and in that case no town - crier would ever find her again . befor lower the boat for the chase , the upper end of the line is taken aft from the tub , and pass round the loggerhead there , is again carri forward the entir length of the boat , rest crosswis upon the loom or handl of everi man ' s oar , so that it jog against hi wrist in row ; and also pass between the men , as they altern sit at the opposit gunwal , to the lead chock or groov in the extrem point prow of the boat , where a wooden pin or skewer the size of a common quill , prevent it from slip out . from the chock it hang in a slight festoon over the bow , and is then pass insid the boat again ; and some ten or twenti fathom ( call box - line ) be coil upon the box in the bow , it continu it way to the gunwal still a littl further aft , and is then attach to the short - warp -- the rope which is immedi connect with the harpoon ; but previou to that connexion , the short - warp goe through sundri mystif too tediou to detail . thu the whale - line fold the whole boat in it complic coil , twist and writh around it in almost everi direct . all the oarsmen are involv in it peril contort ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as indian juggler , with the deadliest snake sportiv festoon their limb . nor can ani son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricaci , and while strain hi utmost at the oar , bethink him that at ani unknown instant the harpoon may be dart , and all these horribl contort be put in play like ring lightn ; he can not be thu circumstanc without a shudder that make the veri marrow in hi bone to quiver in him like a shaken jelli . yet habit -- strang thing ! what can not habit accomplish ? -- gayer salli , more merri mirth , better joke , and brighter reparte , you never heard over your mahogani , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thu hung in hangman ' s noos ; and , like the six burgher of calai befor king edward , the six men compos the crew pull into the jaw of death , with a halter around everi neck , as you may say . perhap a veri littl thought will now enabl you to account for those repeat whale disast -- some few of which are casual chronicl -- of thi man or that man be taken out of the boat by the line , and lost . for , when the line is dart out , to be seat then in the boat , is like be seat in the midst of the manifold whizz of a steam - engin in full play , when everi fli beam , and shaft , and wheel , is graze you . It is wors ; for you can not sit motionless in the heart of these peril , becaus the boat is rock like a cradl , and you are pitch one way and the other , without the slightest warn ; and onli by a certain self - adjust buoyanc and simultan of volit and action , can you escap be made a mazeppa of , and run away with where the all - see sun himself could never pierc you out . again : as the profound calm which onli appar preced and prophesi of the storm , is perhap more aw than the storm itself ; for , inde , the calm is but the wrapper and envelop of the storm ; and contain it in itself , as the seemingli harmless rifl hold the fatal powder , and the ball , and the explos ; so the grace repos of the line , as it silent serpentin about the oarsmen befor be brought into actual play -- thi is a thing which carri more of true terror than ani other aspect of thi danger affair . but whi say more ? all men live envelop in whale - line . all are born with halter round their neck ; but it is onli when caught in the swift , sudden turn of death , that mortal realiz the silent , subtl , ever - present peril of life . and if you be a philosoph , though seat in the whale - boat , you would not at heart feel one whit more of terror , than though seat befor your even fire with a poker , and not a harpoon , by your side . chapter 61 stubb kill a whale . If to starbuck the apparit of the squid wa a thing of portent , to queequeg it wa quit a differ object . `` when you see him ' quid , '' said the savag , hone hi harpoon in the bow of hi hoist boat , `` then you quick see him ' parm whale . '' the next day wa exceedingli still and sultri , and with noth special to engag them , the pequod ' s crew could hardli resist the spell of sleep induc by such a vacant sea . for thi part of the indian ocean through which we then were voyag is not what whalemen call a live ground ; that is , it afford fewer glimps of porpois , dolphin , fli - fish , and other vivaci denizen of more stir water , than those off the rio de la plata , or the in - shore ground off peru . It wa my turn to stand at the foremast - head ; and with my shoulder lean against the slacken royal shroud , to and fro I idli sway in what seem an enchant air . No resolut could withstand it ; in that dreami mood lose all conscious , at last my soul went out of my bodi ; though my bodi still continu to sway as a pendulum will , long after the power which first move it is withdrawn . ere forget altogeth came over me , I had notic that the seamen at the main and mizzen - mast - head were alreadi drowsi . So that at last all three of us lifelessli swung from the spar , and for everi swing that we made there wa a nod from below from the slumber helmsman . the wave , too , nod their indol crest ; and across the wide tranc of the sea , east nod to west , and the sun over all . suddenli bubbl seem burst beneath my close eye ; like vice my hand grasp the shroud ; some invis , graciou agenc preserv me ; with a shock I came back to life . and lo ! close under our lee , not forti fathom off , a gigant sperm whale lay roll in the water like the capsiz hull of a frigat , hi broad , glossi back , of an ethiopian hue , glisten in the sun ' s ray like a mirror . but lazili undul in the trough of the sea , and ever and anon tranquilli spout hi vapouri jet , the whale look like a portli burgher smoke hi pipe of a warm afternoon . but that pipe , poor whale , wa thi last . As if struck by some enchant ' s wand , the sleepi ship and everi sleeper in it all at onc start into wake ; and more than a score of voic from all part of the vessel , simultan with the three note from aloft , shout forth the accustom cri , as the great fish slowli and regularli spout the sparkl brine into the air . `` clear away the boat ! luff ! '' cri ahab . and obey hi own order , he dash the helm down befor the helmsman could handl the spoke . the sudden exclam of the crew must have alarm the whale ; and ere the boat were down , majest turn , he swam away to the leeward , but with such a steadi tranquil , and make so few rippl as he swam , that think after all he might not as yet be alarm , ahab gave order that not an oar should be use , and no man must speak but in whisper . So seat like ontario indian on the gunwal of the boat , we swiftli but silent paddl along ; the calm not admit of the noiseless sail be set . present , as we thu glide in chase , the monster perpendicularli flit hi tail forti feet into the air , and then sank out of sight like a tower swallow up . `` there go fluke ! '' wa the cri , an announc immedi follow by stubb ' s produc hi match and ignit hi pipe , for now a respit wa grant . after the full interv of hi sound had elaps , the whale rose again , and be now in advanc of the smoker ' s boat , and much nearer to it than to ani of the other , stubb count upon the honour of the captur . It wa obviou , now , that the whale had at length becom awar of hi pursuer . all silenc of cautious wa therefor no longer of use . paddl were drop , and oar came loudli into play . and still puf at hi pipe , stubb cheer on hi crew to the assault . ye , a mighti chang had come over the fish . all aliv to hi jeopardi , he wa go `` head out `` ; that part obliqu project from the mad yeast which he brew . * * It will be seen in some other place of what a veri light substanc the entir interior of the sperm whale ' s enorm head consist . though appar the most massiv , it is by far the most buoyant part about him . So that with eas he elev it in the air , and invari doe so when go at hi utmost speed . besid , such is the breadth of the upper part of the front of hi head , and such the taper cut - water format of the lower part , that by obliqu elev hi head , he therebi may be said to transform himself from a bluff - bow sluggish galliot into a sharppoint new york pilot - boat . `` start her , start her , my men ! don ' t hurri yourselv ; take plenti of time -- but start her ; start her like thunder - clap , that ' s all , '' cri stubb , splutter out the smoke as he spoke . `` start her , now ; give ' em the long and strong stroke , tashtego . start her , tash , my boy -- start her , all ; but keep cool , keep cool -- cucumb is the word -- easi , easi -- onli start her like grim death and grin devil , and rais the buri dead perpendicular out of their grave , boy -- that ' s all . start her ! '' `` woo - hoo ! Wa - hee ! '' scream the gay - header in repli , rais some old war - whoop to the sky ; as everi oarsman in the strain boat involuntarili bounc forward with the one tremend lead stroke which the eager indian gave . but hi wild scream were answer by other quit as wild . `` kee - hee ! kee - hee ! '' yell daggoo , strain forward and backward on hi seat , like a pace tiger in hi cage . `` Ka - la ! koo - loo ! '' howl queequeg , as if smack hi lip over a mouth of grenadi ' s steak . and thu with oar and yell the keel cut the sea . meanwhil , stubb retain hi place in the van , still encourag hi men to the onset , all the while puf the smoke from hi mouth . like desperado they tug and they strain , till the welcom cri wa heard -- '' stand up , tashtego ! -- give it to him ! '' the harpoon wa hurl . `` stern all ! '' the oarsmen back water ; the same moment someth went hot and hiss along everi one of their wrist . It wa the magic line . An instant befor , stubb had swiftli caught two addit turn with it round the loggerhead , whenc , by reason of it increas rapid circl , a hempen blue smoke now jet up and mingl with the steadi fume from hi pipe . As the line pass round and round the loggerhead ; so also , just befor reach that point , it blisteringli pass through and through both of stubb ' s hand , from which the hand - cloth , or squar of quilt canva sometim worn at these time , had accident drop . It wa like hold an enemi ' s sharp two - edg sword by the blade , and that enemi all the time strive to wrest it out of your clutch . `` wet the line ! wet the line ! '' cri stubb to the tub oarsman ( him seat by the tub ) who , snatch off hi hat , dash sea - water into it . * more turn were taken , so that the line began hold it place . the boat now flew through the boil water like a shark all fin . stubb and tashtego here chang place -- stem for stern -- a stagger busi truli in that rock commot . * partli to show the indispens of thi act , it may here be state , that , in the old dutch fisheri , a mop wa use to dash the run line with water ; in mani other ship , a wooden piggin , or bailer , is set apart for that purpos . your hat , howev , is the most conveni . from the vibrat line extend the entir length of the upper part of the boat , and from it now be more tight than a harpstr , you would have thought the craft had two keel -- one cleav the water , the other the air -- as the boat churn on through both oppos element at onc . A continu cascad play at the bow ; a ceaseless whirl eddi in her wake ; and , at the slightest motion from within , even but of a littl finger , the vibrat , crack craft cant over her spasmod gunwal into the sea . thu they rush ; each man with might and main cling to hi seat , to prevent be toss to the foam ; and the tall form of tashtego at the steer oar crouch almost doubl , in order to bring down hi centr of graviti . whole atlant and pacif seem pass as they shot on their way , till at length the whale somewhat slacken hi flight . `` haul in -- haul in ! '' cri stubb to the bowsman ! and , face round toward the whale , all hand began pull the boat up to him , while yet the boat wa be tow on . soon rang up by hi flank , stubb , firmli plant hi knee in the clumsi cleat , dart dart after dart into the fli fish ; at the word of command , the boat altern stern out of the way of the whale ' s horribl wallow , and then rang up for anoth fling . the red tide now pour from all side of the monster like brook down a hill . hi torment bodi roll not in brine but in blood , which bubbl and seeth for furlong behind in their wake . the slant sun play upon thi crimson pond in the sea , sent back it reflect into everi face , so that they all glow to each other like red men . and all the while , jet after jet of white smoke wa agonizingli shot from the spiracl of the whale , and vehement puff after puff from the mouth of the excit headsman ; as at everi dart , haul in upon hi crook lanc ( by the line attach to it ) , stubb straighten it again and again , by a few rapid blow against the gunwal , then again and again sent it into the whale . `` pull up -- pull up ! '' he now cri to the bowsman , as the wane whale relax in hi wrath . `` pull up ! -- close to ! '' and the boat rang along the fish ' s flank . when reach far over the bow , stubb slowli churn hi long sharp lanc into the fish , and kept it there , care churn and churn , as if cautious seek to feel after some gold watch that the whale might have swallow , and which he wa fear of break ere he could hook it out . but that gold watch he sought wa the innermost life of the fish . and now it is struck ; for , start from hi tranc into that unspeak thing call hi `` flurri , '' the monster horribl wallow in hi blood , overwrap himself in impenetr , mad , boil spray , so that the imperil craft , instantli drop astern , had much ado blindli to struggl out from that phrensi twilight into the clear air of the day . and now abat in hi flurri , the whale onc more roll out into view ; surg from side to side ; spasmod dilat and contract hi spout - hole , with sharp , crack , agon respir . At last , gush after gush of clot red gore , as if it had been the purpl lee of red wine , shot into the fright air ; and fall back again , ran drip down hi motionless flank into the sea . hi heart had burst ! `` He ' s dead , Mr . stubb , '' said daggoo . `` ye ; both pipe smoke out ! '' and withdraw hi own from hi mouth , stubb scatter the dead ash over the water ; and , for a moment , stood thought eye the vast corps he had made . chapter 62 the dart . A word concern an incid in the last chapter . accord to the invari usag of the fisheri , the whale - boat push off from the ship , with the headsman or whale - killer as temporari steersman , and the harpoon or whale - fasten pull the foremost oar , the one known as the harpoon - oar . now it need a strong , nervou arm to strike the first iron into the fish ; for often , in what is call a long dart , the heavi implement ha to be flung to the distanc of twenti or thirti feet . but howev prolong and exhaust the chase , the harpoon is expect to pull hi oar meanwhil to the uttermost ; inde , he is expect to set an exampl of superhuman activ to the rest , not onli by incred row , but by repeat loud and intrepid exclam ; and what it is to keep shout at the top of one ' s compass , while all the other muscl are strain and half start -- what that is none know but those who have tri it . for one , I can not bawl veri heartili and work veri recklessli at one and the same time . In thi strain , bawl state , then , with hi back to the fish , all at onc the exhaust harpoon hear the excit cri -- '' stand up , and give it to him ! '' He now ha to drop and secur hi oar , turn round on hi centr half way , seiz hi harpoon from the crotch , and with what littl strength may remain , he essay to pitch it somehow into the whale . No wonder , take the whole fleet of whalemen in a bodi , that out of fifti fair chanc for a dart , not five are success ; no wonder that so mani hapless harpoon are madli curs and disrat ; no wonder that some of them actual burst their blood - vessel in the boat ; no wonder that some sperm whalemen are absent four year with four barrel ; no wonder that to mani ship owner , whale is but a lose concern ; for it is the harpoon that make the voyag , and if you take the breath out of hi bodi how can you expect to find it there when most want ! again , if the dart be success , then at the second critic instant , that is , when the whale start to run , the boathead and harpoon likewis start to run fore and aft , to the immin jeopardi of themselv and everi one els . It is then they chang place ; and the headsman , the chief offic of the littl craft , take hi proper station in the bow of the boat . now , I care not who maintain the contrari , but all thi is both foolish and unnecessari . the headsman should stay in the bow from first to last ; he should both dart the harpoon and the lanc , and no row whatev should be expect of him , except under circumst obviou to ani fisherman . I know that thi would sometim involv a slight loss of speed in the chase ; but long experi in variou whalemen of more than one nation ha convinc me that in the vast major of failur in the fisheri , it ha not by ani mean been so much the speed of the whale as the befor describ exhaust of the harpoon that ha caus them . To insur the greatest effici in the dart , the harpoon of thi world must start to their feet from out of idl , and not from out of toil . chapter 63 the crotch . out of the trunk , the branch grow ; out of them , the twig . So , in product subject , grow the chapter . the crotch allud to on a previou page deserv independ mention . It is a notch stick of a peculiar form , some two feet in length , which is perpendicularli insert into the starboard gunwal near the bow , for the purpos of furnish a rest for the wooden extrem of the harpoon , whose other nake , barb end slopingli project from the prow . therebi the weapon is instantli at hand to it hurler , who snatch it up as readili from it rest as a backwoodsman swing hi rifl from the wall . It is customari to have two harpoon repos in the crotch , respect call the first and second iron . but these two harpoon , each by it own cord , are both connect with the line ; the object be thi : to dart them both , if possibl , one instantli after the other into the same whale ; so that if , in the come drag , one should draw out , the other may still retain a hold . It is a doubl of the chanc . but it veri often happen that owe to the instantan , violent , convuls run of the whale upon receiv the first iron , it becom imposs for the harpoon , howev lightn - like in hi movement , to pitch the second iron into him . nevertheless , as the second iron is alreadi connect with the line , and the line is run , henc that weapon must , at all event , be anticipatingli toss out of the boat , somehow and somewher ; els the most terribl jeopardi would involv all hand . tumbl into the water , it accordingli is in such case ; the spare coil of box line ( mention in a preced chapter ) make thi feat , in most instanc , prudent practic . but thi critic act is not alway unattend with the saddest and most fatal casualti . furthermor : you must know that when the second iron is thrown overboard , it thenceforth becom a dangl , sharp - edg terror , skittishli curvet about both boat and whale , entangl the line , or cut them , and make a prodigi sensat in all direct . nor , in gener , is it possibl to secur it again until the whale is fairli captur and a corps . consid , now , how it must be in the case of four boat all engag one unusu strong , activ , and know whale ; when owe to these qualiti in him , as well as to the thousand concur accid of such an audaci enterpris , eight or ten loos second iron may be simultan dangl about him . for , of cours , each boat is suppli with sever harpoon to bend on to the line should the first one be ineffectu dart without recoveri . all these particular are faith narrat here , as they will not fail to elucid sever most import , howev intric passag , in scene hereaft to be paint . chapter 64 stubb ' s supper . stubb ' s whale had been kill some distanc from the ship . It wa a calm ; so , form a tandem of three boat , we commenc the slow busi of tow the trophi to the pequod . and now , as we eighteen men with our thirti - six arm , and one hundr and eighti thumb and finger , slowli toil hour after hour upon that inert , sluggish corps in the sea ; and it seem hardli to budg at all , except at long interv ; good evid wa herebi furnish of the enorm of the mass we move . for , upon the great canal of hang - Ho , or whatev they call it , in china , four or five labor on the foot - path will draw a bulki freight junk at the rate of a mile an hour ; but thi grand argosi we tow heavili forg along , as if laden with pig - lead in bulk . dark came on ; but three light up and down in the pequod ' s main - rig dimli guid our way ; till draw nearer we saw ahab drop one of sever more lantern over the bulwark . vacantli eye the heav whale for a moment , he issu the usual order for secur it for the night , and then hand hi lantern to a seaman , went hi way into the cabin , and did not come forward again until morn . though , in overse the pursuit of thi whale , captain ahab had evinc hi customari activ , to call it so ; yet now that the creatur wa dead , some vagu dissatisfact , or impati , or despair , seem work in him ; as if the sight of that dead bodi remind him that mobi dick wa yet to be slain ; and though a thousand other whale were brought to hi ship , all that would not one jot advanc hi grand , monomaniac object . veri soon you would have thought from the sound on the pequod ' s deck , that all hand were prepar to cast anchor in the deep ; for heavi chain are be drag along the deck , and thrust rattl out of the port - hole . but by those clank link , the vast corps itself , not the ship , is to be moor . tie by the head to the stern , and by the tail to the bow , the whale now lie with it black hull close to the vessel ' s and seen through the dark of the night , which obscur the spar and rig aloft , the two -- ship and whale , seem yoke togeth like coloss bullock , whereof one reclin while the other remain stand . * * A littl item may as well be relat here . the strongest and most reliabl hold which the ship ha upon the whale when moor alongsid , is by the fluke or tail ; and as from it greater densiti that part is rel heavier than ani other ( except the side - fin ) , it flexibl even in death , caus it to sink low beneath the surfac ; so that with the hand you can not get at it from the boat , in order to put the chain round it . but thi difficulti is ingeni overcom : a small , strong line is prepar with a wooden float at it outer end , and a weight in it middl , while the other end is secur to the ship . By adroit manag the wooden float is made to rise on the other side of the mass , so that now have girdl the whale , the chain is readili made to follow suit ; and be slip along the bodi , is at last lock fast round the smallest part of the tail , at the point of junction with it broad fluke or lobe . If moodi ahab wa now all quiescenc , at least so far as could be known on deck , stubb , hi second mate , flush with conquest , betray an unusu but still good - natur excit . such an unwont bustl wa he in that the staid starbuck , hi offici superior , quietli resign to him for the time the sole manag of affair . one small , help caus of all thi liveli in stubb , wa soon made strang manifest . stubb wa a high liver ; he wa somewhat intemper fond of the whale as a flavorish thing to hi palat . `` A steak , a steak , ere I sleep ! you , daggoo ! overboard you go , and cut me one from hi small ! '' here be it known , that though these wild fishermen do not , as a gener thing , and accord to the great militari maxim , make the enemi defray the current expens of the war ( at least befor realiz the proce of the voyag ) , yet now and then you find some of these nantucket who have a genuin relish for that particular part of the sperm whale design by stubb ; compris the taper extrem of the bodi . about midnight that steak wa cut and cook ; and light by two lantern of sperm oil , stubb stoutli stood up to hi spermaceti supper at the capstan - head , as if that capstan were a sideboard . nor wa stubb the onli banquet on whale ' s flesh that night . mingl their mumbl with hi own mastic , thousand on thousand of shark , swarm round the dead leviathan , smackingli feast on it fat . the few sleeper below in their bunk were often startl by the sharp slap of their tail against the hull , within a few inch of the sleeper ' heart . peer over the side you could just see them ( as befor you heard them ) wallow in the sullen , black water , and turn over on their back as they scoop out huge globular piec of the whale of the big of a human head . thi particular feat of the shark seem all but miracul . how at such an appar unassail surfac , they contriv to goug out such symmetr mouth , remain a part of the univers problem of all thing . the mark they thu leav on the whale , may best be liken to the hollow made by a carpent in countersink for a screw . though amid all the smoke horror and diabol of a sea - fight , shark will be seen longingli gaze up to the ship ' s deck , like hungri dog round a tabl where red meat is be carv , readi to bolt down everi kill man that is toss to them ; and though , while the valiant butcher over the deck - tabl are thu cannib carv each other ' s live meat with carv - knive all gild and tassel , the shark , also , with their jewel - hilt mouth , are quarrelsom carv away under the tabl at the dead meat ; and though , were you to turn the whole affair upsid down , it would still be pretti much the same thing , that is to say , a shock sharkish busi enough for all parti ; and though shark also are the invari outrid of all slave ship cross the atlant , systemat trot alongsid , to be handi in case a parcel is to be carri anywher , or a dead slave to be decent buri ; and though one or two other like instanc might be set down , touch the set term , place , and occas , when shark do most social congreg , and most hilari feast ; yet is there no conceiv time or occas when you will find them in such countless number , and in gayer or more jovial spirit , than around a dead sperm whale , moor by night to a whaleship at sea . If you have never seen that sight , then suspend your decis about the proprieti of devil - worship , and the expedi of concili the devil . but , as yet , stubb heed not the mumbl of the banquet that wa go on so nigh him , no more than the shark heed the smack of hi own epicurean lip . `` cook , cook ! -- where ' s that old fleec ? '' he cri at length , widen hi leg still further , as if to form a more secur base for hi supper ; and , at the same time dart hi fork into the dish , as if stab with hi lanc ; `` cook , you cook ! -- sail thi way , cook ! '' the old black , not in ani veri high glee at have been previous rous from hi warm hammock at a most unseason hour , came shambl along from hi galley , for , like mani old black , there wa someth the matter with hi knee - pan , which he did not keep well scour like hi other pan ; thi old fleec , as they call him , came shuffl and limp along , assist hi step with hi tong , which , after a clumsi fashion , were made of straighten iron hoop ; thi old eboni flounder along , and in obedi to the word of command , came to a dead stop on the opposit side of stubb ' s sideboard ; when , with both hand fold befor him , and rest on hi two - leg cane , he bow hi arch back still further over , at the same time sideway inclin hi head , so as to bring hi best ear into play . `` cook , '' said stubb , rapidli lift a rather reddish morsel to hi mouth , `` don ' t you think thi steak is rather overdon ? you ' ve been beat thi steak too much , cook ; it ' s too tender . don ' t I alway say that to be good , a whale - steak must be tough ? there are those shark now over the side , don ' t you see they prefer it tough and rare ? what a shindi they are kick up ! cook , go and talk to ' em ; tell ' em they are welcom to help themselv civilli , and in moder , but they must keep quiet . blast me , if I can hear my own voic . away , cook , and deliv my messag . here , take thi lantern , '' snatch one from hi sideboard ; `` now then , go and preach to ' em ! '' sullenli take the offer lantern , old fleec limp across the deck to the bulwark ; and then , with one hand drop hi light low over the sea , so as to get a good view of hi congreg , with the other hand he solemnli flourish hi tong , and lean far over the side in a mumbl voic began address the shark , while stubb , softli crawl behind , overheard all that wa said . `` fellow - critter : I ' se order here to say dat you must stop dat dam nois dare . you hear ? stop dat dam smackin ' ob de lip ! massa stubb say dat you can fill your dam belli up to de hatch , but by gor ! you must stop dat dam racket ! '' `` cook , '' here interpos stubb , accompani the word with a sudden slap on the shoulder , -- '' cook ! whi , damn your eye , you mustn ' t swear that way when you ' re preach . that ' s no way to convert sinner , cook ! '' `` who dat ? den preach to him yourself , '' sullenli turn to go . `` No , cook ; go on , go on . '' `` well , den , belub fellow - critter : '' - `` right ! '' exclaim stubb , approvingli , `` coax ' em to it ; tri that , '' and fleec continu . `` Do you is all shark , and by natur weri woraci , yet I zay to you , fellow - critter , dat dat woraci -- ' top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! how you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ? '' `` cook , '' cri stubb , collar him , `` I won ' t have that swear . talk to ' em gentlemanli . '' onc more the sermon proceed . `` your woraci , fellow - critter , I don ' t blame ye so much for ; dat is natur , and can ' t be help ; but to gobern dat wick natur , dat is de pint . you is shark , sartin ; but if you gobern de shark in you , whi den you be angel ; for all angel is not ' ing more dan de shark well gobern . now , look here , bred ' ren , just tri wonst to be cibil , a help yourselb from dat whale . don ' t be tearin ' de blubber out your neighbour ' s mout , I say . Is not one shark dood right as toder to dat whale ? and , by gor , none on you ha de right to dat whale ; dat whale belong to some one els . I know some o ' you ha berri brig mout , brigger dan oder ; but den de brig mout sometim ha de small belli ; so dat de brig of de mout is not to swaller wid , but to bit off de blubber for de small fri ob shark , dat can ' t get into de scroug to help demselv . '' `` well done , old fleec ! '' cri stubb , `` that ' s christian ; go on . '' `` No use goin ' on ; de dam willain will keep a scougin ' and slappin ' each oder , massa stubb ; dey don ' t hear one word ; no use a - preach to such dam g ' utton as you call ' em , till dare belli is full , and dare belli is bottomless ; and when dey do get ' em full , dey wont hear you den ; for den dey sink in the sea , go fast to sleep on de coral , and can ' t hear note at all , no more , for eber and eber . '' `` upon my soul , I am about of the same opinion ; so give the benedict , fleec , and I ' ll away to my supper . '' upon thi , fleec , hold both hand over the fishi mob , rais hi shrill voic , and cri -- `` cuss fellow - critter ! kick up de damndest row as ever you can ; fill your dam belli ' till dey bust -- and den die . '' `` now , cook , '' said stubb , resum hi supper at the capstan ; `` stand just where you stood befor , there , over against me , and pay particular attent . '' `` all ' dention , '' said fleec , again stoop over upon hi tong in the desir posit . `` well , '' said stubb , help himself freeli meanwhil ; `` I shall now go back to the subject of thi steak . In the first place , how old are you , cook ? '' `` what dat do wid de ' teak , '' said the old black , testili . `` silenc ! how old are you , cook ? '' `` ' bout nineti , dey say , '' he gloomili mutter . `` and you have live in thi world hard upon one hundr year , cook , and don ' t know yet how to cook a whale - steak ? '' rapidli bolt anoth mouth at the last word , so that morsel seem a continu of the question . `` where were you born , cook ? '' `` ' hind de hatchway , in ferri - boat , goin ' ober de roanok . '' `` born in a ferri - boat ! that ' s queer , too . but I want to know what countri you were born in , cook ! '' `` didn ' t I say de roanok countri ? '' he cri sharpli . `` No , you didn ' t , cook ; but I ' ll tell you what I ' m come to , cook . you must go home and be born over again ; you don ' t know how to cook a whale - steak yet . '' `` bress my soul , if I cook noder one , '' he growl , angrili , turn round to depart . `` come back here , cook ; -- here , hand me those tong ; -- now take that bit of steak there , and tell me if you think that steak cook as it should be ? take it , I say `` -- hold the tong toward him -- '' take it , and tast it . '' faintli smack hi wither lip over it for a moment , the old negro mutter , `` best cook ' teak I eber tast ; joosi , berri joosi . '' `` cook , '' said stubb , squar himself onc more ; `` do you belong to the church ? '' `` pass one onc in cape - down , '' said the old man sullenli . `` and you have onc in your life pass a holi church in cape - town , where you doubtless overheard a holi parson address hi hearer as hi belov fellow - creatur , have you , cook ! and yet you come here , and tell me such a dread lie as you did just now , eh ? '' said stubb . `` where do you expect to go to , cook ? '' `` Go to bed berri soon , '' he mumbl , half - turn as he spoke . `` avast ! heav to ! I mean when you die , cook . It ' s an aw question . now what ' s your answer ? '' `` when di old brack man die , '' said the negro slowli , chang hi whole air and demeanor , `` he hisself won ' t go nowher ; but some bress angel will come and fetch him . '' `` fetch him ? how ? In a coach and four , as they fetch elijah ? and fetch him where ? '' `` Up dere , '' said fleec , hold hi tong straight over hi head , and keep it there veri solemnli . `` So , then , you expect to go up into our main - top , do you , cook , when you are dead ? but don ' t you know the higher you climb , the colder it get ? main - top , eh ? '' `` didn ' t say dat t ' all , '' said fleec , again in the sulk . `` you said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tong are point . but , perhap you expect to get into heaven by crawl through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rig . It ' s a ticklish busi , but must be done , or els it ' s no go . but none of us are in heaven yet . drop your tong , cook , and hear my order . Do ye hear ? hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , when I ' m give my order , cook . what ! that your heart , there ? -- that ' s your gizzard ! aloft ! aloft ! -- that ' s it -- now you have it . hold it there now , and pay attent . '' `` all ' dention , '' said the old black , with both hand place as desir , vainli wriggl hi grizzl head , as if to get both ear in front at one and the same time . `` well then , cook , you see thi whale - steak of your wa so veri bad , that I have put it out of sight as soon as possibl ; you see that , don ' t you ? well , for the futur , when you cook anoth whale - steak for my privat tabl here , the capstan , I ' ll tell you what to do so as not to spoil it by overdo . hold the steak in one hand , and show a live coal to it with the other ; that done , dish it ; d ' ye hear ? and now to - morrow , cook , when we are cut in the fish , be sure you stand by to get the tip of hi fin ; have them put in pickl . As for the end of the fluke , have them sous , cook . there , now ye may go . '' but fleec had hardli got three pace off , when he wa recal . `` cook , give me cutlet for supper to - morrow night in the mid - watch . D ' ye hear ? away you sail , then . -- halloa ! stop ! make a bow befor you go . -- avast heav again ! whale - ball for breakfast -- don ' t forget . '' `` wish , by gor ! whale eat him , ' stead of him eat whale . I ' m bress if he ain ' t more of shark dan massa shark hisself , '' mutter the old man , limp away ; with which sage ejacul he went to hi hammock . chapter 65 the whale as a dish . that mortal man should feed upon the creatur that feed hi lamp , and , like stubb , eat him by hi own light , as you may say ; thi seem so outlandish a thing that one must need go a littl into the histori and philosophi of it . It is upon record , that three centuri ago the tongu of the right whale wa esteem a great delicaci in franc , and command larg price there . also , that in henri viiith ' s time , a certain cook of the court obtain a handsom reward for invent an admir sauc to be eaten with barbacu porpois , which , you rememb , are a speci of whale . porpois , inde , are to thi day consid fine eat . the meat is made into ball about the size of billiard ball , and be well season and spice might be taken for turtl - ball or veal ball . the old monk of dunfermlin were veri fond of them . they had a great porpois grant from the crown . the fact is , that among hi hunter at least , the whale would by all hand be consid a nobl dish , were there not so much of him ; but when you come to sit down befor a meat - pie nearli one hundr feet long , it take away your appetit . onli the most unprejud of men like stubb , nowaday partak of cook whale ; but the esquimaux are not so fastidi . We all know how they live upon whale , and have rare old vintag of prime old train oil . zogranda , one of their most famou doctor , recommend strip of blubber for infant , as be exceedingli juici and nourish . and thi remind me that certain englishmen , who long ago were accident left in greenland by a whale vessel -- that these men actual live for sever month on the mouldi scrap of whale which had been left ashor after tri out the blubber . among the dutch whalemen these scrap are call `` fritter `` ; which , inde , they greatli resembl , be brown and crisp , and smell someth like old amsterdam housew ' dough - nut or oli - cook , when fresh . they have such an eatabl look that the most self - deni stranger can hardli keep hi hand off . but what further depreci the whale as a civil dish , is hi exceed rich . He is the great prize ox of the sea , too fat to be delic good . look at hi hump , which would be as fine eat as the buffalo ' s ( which is esteem a rare dish ) , were it not such a solid pyramid of fat . but the spermaceti itself , how bland and creami that is ; like the transpar , half - jelli , white meat of a cocoanut in the third month of it growth , yet far too rich to suppli a substitut for butter . nevertheless , mani whalemen have a method of absorb it into some other substanc , and then partak of it . In the long tri watch of the night it is a common thing for the seamen to dip their ship - biscuit into the huge oil - pot and let them fri there awhil . mani a good supper have I thu made . In the case of a small sperm whale the brain are account a fine dish . the casket of the skull is broken into with an axe , and the two plump , whitish lobe be withdrawn ( precis resembl two larg pud ) , they are then mix with flour , and cook into a most delect mess , in flavor somewhat resembl calv ' head , which is quit a dish among some epicur ; and everi one know that some young buck among the epicur , by continu dine upon calv ' brain , by and by get to have a littl brain of their own , so as to be abl to tell a calf ' s head from their own head ; which , inde , requir uncommon discrimin . and that is the reason whi a young buck with an intellig look calf ' s head befor him , is somehow one of the saddest sight you can see . the head look a sort of reproach at him , with an `` Et tu brute ! '' express . It is not , perhap , entir becaus the whale is so excess unctuou that landsmen seem to regard the eat of him with abhorr ; that appear to result , in some way , from the consider befor mention : i . e . that a man should eat a newli murder thing of the sea , and eat it too by it own light . but no doubt the first man that ever murder an ox wa regard as a murder ; perhap he wa hung ; and if he had been put on hi trial by oxen , he certainli would have been ; and he certainli deserv it if ani murder doe . Go to the meat - market of a saturday night and see the crowd of live bipe stare up at the long row of dead quadrup . doe not that sight take a tooth out of the cannib ' s jaw ? cannib ? who is not a cannib ? I tell you it will be more toler for the feje that salt down a lean missionari in hi cellar against a come famin ; it will be more toler for that provid feje , I say , in the day of judgment , than for thee , civil and enlighten gourmand , who nailest gees to the ground and feastest on their bloat liver in thi pate - de - foie - gra . but stubb , he eat the whale by it own light , doe he ? and that is ad insult to injuri , is it ? look at your knife - handl , there , my civil and enlighten gourmand dine off that roast beef , what is that handl made of ? -- what but the bone of the brother of the veri ox you are eat ? and what do you pick your teeth with , after devour that fat goos ? with a feather of the same fowl . and with what quill did the secretari of the societi for the suppress of cruelti to gander formal indit hi circular ? It is onli within the last month or two that that societi pass a resolut to patronis noth but steel pen . chapter 66 the shark massacr . when in the southern fisheri , a captur sperm whale , after long and weari toil , is brought alongsid late at night , it is not , as a gener thing at least , customari to proceed at onc to the busi of cut him in . for that busi is an exceedingli labori one ; is not veri soon complet ; and requir all hand to set about it . therefor , the common usag is to take in all sail ; lash the helm a ' lee ; and then send everi one below to hi hammock till daylight , with the reserv that , until that time , anchor - watch shall be kept ; that is , two and two for an hour , each coupl , the crew in rotat shall mount the deck to see that all goe well . but sometim , especi upon the line in the pacif , thi plan will not answer at all ; becaus such incalcul host of shark gather round the moor carcas , that were he left so for six hour , say , on a stretch , littl more than the skeleton would be visibl by morn . In most other part of the ocean , howev , where these fish do not so larg abound , their wondrou vorac can be at time consider diminish , by vigor stir them up with sharp whale - spade , a procedur notwithstand , which , in some instanc , onli seem to tickl them into still greater activ . but it wa not thu in the present case with the pequod ' s shark ; though , to be sure , ani man unaccustom to such sight , to have look over her side that night , would have almost thought the whole round sea wa one huge chees , and those shark the maggot in it . nevertheless , upon stubb set the anchor - watch after hi supper wa conclud ; and when , accordingli , queequeg and a forecastl seaman came on deck , no small excit wa creat among the shark ; for immedi suspend the cut stage over the side , and lower three lantern , so that they cast long gleam of light over the turbid sea , these two marin , dart their long whale - spade , kept up an incess murder of the shark , * by strike the keen steel deep into their skull , seemingli their onli vital part . but in the foami confus of their mix and struggl host , the marksmen could not alway hit their mark ; and thi brought about new revel of the incred feroc of the foe . they vicious snap , not onli at each other ' s disembowel , but like flexibl bow , bent round , and bit their own ; till those entrail seem swallow over and over again by the same mouth , to be opposit void by the gape wound . nor wa thi all . It wa unsaf to meddl with the corps and ghost of these creatur . A sort of gener or pantheist vital seem to lurk in their veri joint and bone , after what might be call the individu life had depart . kill and hoist on deck for the sake of hi skin , one of these shark almost took poor queequeg ' s hand off , when he tri to shut down the dead lid of hi murder jaw . * the whale - spade use for cut - in is made of the veri best steel ; is about the big of a man ' s spread hand ; and in gener shape , correspond to the garden implement after which it is name ; onli it side are perfectli flat , and it upper end consider narrow than the lower . thi weapon is alway kept as sharp as possibl ; and when be use is occasion hone , just like a razor . In it socket , a stiff pole , from twenti to thirti feet long , is insert for a handl . `` queequeg no care what god made him shark , '' said the savag , agonizingli lift hi hand up and down ; `` wedder feje god or nantucket god ; but de god wat made shark must be one dam ingin . '' chapter 67 cut In . It wa a saturday night , and such a sabbath as follow ! Ex officio professor of sabbath break are all whalemen . the ivori pequod wa turn into what seem a shambl ; everi sailor a butcher . you would have thought we were offer up ten thousand red oxen to the sea god . In the first place , the enorm cut tackl , among other ponder thing compris a cluster of block gener paint green , and which no singl man can possibl lift -- thi vast bunch of grape wa sway up to the main - top and firmli lash to the lower mast - head , the strongest point anywher abov a ship ' s deck . the end of the hawser - like rope wind through these intricaci , wa then conduct to the windlass , and the huge lower block of the tackl wa swung over the whale ; to thi block the great blubber hook , weigh some one hundr pound , wa attach . and now suspend in stage over the side , starbuck and stubb , the mate , arm with their long spade , began cut a hole in the bodi for the insert of the hook just abov the nearest of the two side - fin . thi done , a broad , semicircular line is cut round the hole , the hook is insert , and the main bodi of the crew strike up a wild choru , now commenc heav in one dens crowd at the windlass . when instantli , the entir ship careen over on her side ; everi bolt in her start like the nail - head of an old hous in frosti weather ; she trembl , quiver , and nod her fright mast - head to the sky . more and more she lean over to the whale , while everi gasp heav of the windlass is answer by a help heav from the billow ; till at last , a swift , startl snap is heard ; with a great swash the ship roll upward and backward from the whale , and the triumphant tackl rise into sight drag after it the disengag semicircular end of the first strip of blubber . now as the blubber envelop the whale precis as the rind doe an orang , so is it strip off from the bodi precis as an orang is sometim strip by spiral it . for the strain constantli kept up by the windlass continu keep the whale roll over and over in the water , and as the blubber in one strip uniformli peel off along the line call the `` scarf , '' simultan cut by the spade of starbuck and stubb , the mate ; and just as fast as it is thu peel off , and inde by that veri act itself , it is all the time be hoist higher and higher aloft till it upper end graze the main - top ; the men at the windlass then ceas heav , and for a moment or two the prodigi blood - drip mass sway to and fro as if let down from the sky , and everi one present must take good heed to dodg it when it swing , els it may box hi ear and pitch him headlong overboard . one of the attend harpoon now advanc with a long , keen weapon call a board - sword , and watch hi chanc he dexter slice out a consider hole in the lower part of the sway mass . into thi hole , the end of the second altern great tackl is then hook so as to retain a hold upon the blubber , in order to prepar for what follow . whereupon , thi accomplish swordsman , warn all hand to stand off , onc more make a scientif dash at the mass , and with a few sidelong , desper , lung slice , sever it complet in twain ; so that while the short lower part is still fast , the long upper strip , call a blanket - piec , swing clear , and is all readi for lower . the heaver forward now resum their song , and while the one tackl is peel and hoist a second strip from the whale , the other is slowli slacken away , and down goe the first strip through the main hatchway right beneath , into an unfurnish parlor call the blubber - room . into thi twilight apart sundri nimbl hand keep coil away the long blanket - piec as if it were a great live mass of plait serpent . and thu the work proce ; the two tackl hoist and lower simultan ; both whale and windlass heav , the heaver sing , the blubber - room gentlemen coil , the mate scarf , the ship strain , and all hand swear occasion , by way of assuag the gener friction . chapter 68 the blanket . I have given no small attent to that not unvex subject , the skin of the whale . I have had controversi about it with experienc whalemen afloat , and learn naturalist ashor . My origin opinion remain unchang ; but it is onli an opinion . the question is , what and where is the skin of the whale ? alreadi you know what hi blubber is . that blubber is someth of the consist of firm , close - grain beef , but tougher , more elast and compact , and rang from eight or ten to twelv and fifteen inch in thick . now , howev preposter it may at first seem to talk of ani creatur ' s skin as be of that sort of consist and thick , yet in point of fact these are no argument against such a presumpt ; becaus you can not rais ani other dens envelop layer from the whale ' s bodi but that same blubber ; and the outermost envelop layer of ani anim , if reason dens , what can that be but the skin ? true , from the unmar dead bodi of the whale , you may scrape off with your hand an infinit thin , transpar substanc , somewhat resembl the thinnest shred of isinglass , onli it is almost as flexibl and soft as satin ; that is , previou to be dri , when it not onli contract and thicken , but becom rather hard and brittl . I have sever such dri bit , which I use for mark in my whale - book . It is transpar , as I said befor ; and be laid upon the print page , I have sometim pleas myself with fanci it exert a magnifi influenc . At ani rate , it is pleasant to read about whale through their own spectacl , as you may say . but what I am drive at here is thi . that same infinit thin , isinglass substanc , which , I admit , invest the entir bodi of the whale , is not so much to be regard as the skin of the creatur , as the skin of the skin , so to speak ; for it were simpli ridicul to say , that the proper skin of the tremend whale is thinner and more tender than the skin of a new - born child . but no more of thi . assum the blubber to be the skin of the whale ; then , when thi skin , as in the case of a veri larg sperm whale , will yield the bulk of one hundr barrel of oil ; and , when it is consid that , in quantiti , or rather weight , that oil , in it express state , is onli three fourth , and not the entir substanc of the coat ; some idea may henc be had of the enorm of that anim mass , a mere part of whose mere integu yield such a lake of liquid as that . reckon ten barrel to the ton , you have ten ton for the net weight of onli three quarter of the stuff of the whale ' s skin . In life , the visibl surfac of the sperm whale is not the least among the mani marvel he present . almost invari it is all over obliqu cross and re - cross with numberless straight mark in thick array , someth like those in the finest italian line engrav . but these mark do not seem to be impress upon the isinglass substanc abov mention , but seem to be seen through it , as if they were engrav upon the bodi itself . nor is thi all . In some instanc , to the quick , observ eye , those linear mark , as in a verit engrav , but afford the ground for far other delin . these are hieroglyph ; that is , if you call those mysteri cypher on the wall of pyramid hieroglyph , then that is the proper word to use in the present connexion . By my retent memori of the hieroglyph upon one sperm whale in particular , I wa much struck with a plate repres the old indian charact chisel on the famou hieroglyph palisad on the bank of the upper mississippi . like those mystic rock , too , the mystic - mark whale remain undecipher . thi allus to the indian rock remind me of anoth thing . besid all the other phenomena which the exterior of the sperm whale present , he not seldom display the back , and more especi hi flank , effac in great part of the regular linear appear , by reason of numer rude scratch , altogeth of an irregular , random aspect . I should say that those new england rock on the sea - coast , which agassiz imagin to bear the mark of violent scrape contact with vast float iceberg -- I should say , that those rock must not a littl resembl the sperm whale in thi particular . It also seem to me that such scratch in the whale are probabl made by hostil contact with other whale ; for I have most remark them in the larg , full - grown bull of the speci . A word or two more concern thi matter of the skin or blubber of the whale . It ha alreadi been said , that it is stript from him in long piec , call blanket - piec . like most sea - term , thi one is veri happi and signific . for the whale is inde wrapt up in hi blubber as in a real blanket or counterpan ; or , still better , an indian poncho slipt over hi head , and skirt hi extrem . It is by reason of thi cosi blanket of hi bodi , that the whale is enabl to keep himself comfort in all weather , in all sea , time , and tide . what would becom of a greenland whale , say , in those shudder , ici sea of the north , if unsuppli with hi cosi surtout ? true , other fish are found exceedingli brisk in those hyperborean water ; but these , be it observ , are your cold - blood , lungless fish , whose veri belli are refriger ; creatur , that warm themselv under the lee of an iceberg , as a travel in winter would bask befor an inn fire ; wherea , like man , the whale ha lung and warm blood . freez hi blood , and he die . how wonder is it then -- except after explan -- that thi great monster , to whom corpor warmth is as indispens as it is to man ; how wonder that he should be found at home , immers to hi lip for life in those arctic water ! where , when seamen fall overboard , they are sometim found , month afterward , perpendicularli frozen into the heart of field of ice , as a fli is found glu in amber . but more surpris is it to know , as ha been prove by experi , that the blood of a polar whale is warmer than that of a borneo negro in summer . It doe seem to me , that herein we see the rare virtu of a strong individu vital , and the rare virtu of thick wall , and the rare virtu of interior spacious . Oh , man ! admir and model thyself after the whale ! Do thou , too , remain warm among ice . Do thou , too , live in thi world without be of it . Be cool at the equat ; keep thi blood fluid at the pole . like the great dome of St . peter ' s , and like the great whale , retain , O man ! in all season a temperatur of thine own . but how easi and how hopeless to teach these fine thing ! Of erect , how few are dome like St . peter ' s ! of creatur , how few vast as the whale ! chapter 69 the funer . haul in the chain ! let the carcas go astern ! the vast tackl have now done their duti . the peel white bodi of the behead whale flash like a marbl sepulchr ; though chang in hue , it ha not percept lost anyth in bulk . It is still coloss . slowli it float more and more away , the water round it torn and splash by the insati shark , and the air abov vex with rapaci flight of scream fowl , whose beak are like so mani insult poniard in the whale . the vast white headless phantom float further and further from the ship , and everi rod that it so float , what seem squar rood of shark and cubic rood of fowl , augment the murder din . for hour and hour from the almost stationari ship that hideou sight is seen . beneath the uncloud and mild azur sky , upon the fair face of the pleasant sea , waft by the joyou breez , that great mass of death float on and on , till lost in infinit perspect . there ' s a most dole and most mock funer ! the sea - vultur all in piou mourn , the air - shark all punctili in black or speckl . In life but few of them would have help the whale , I ween , if peradventur he had need it ; but upon the banquet of hi funer they most piousli do pounc . Oh , horribl vultur of earth ! from which not the mightiest whale is free . nor is thi the end . desecr as the bodi is , a veng ghost surviv and hover over it to scare . espi by some timid man - of - war or blunder discoveri - vessel from afar , when the distanc obscur the swarm fowl , nevertheless still show the white mass float in the sun , and the white spray heav high against it ; straightway the whale ' s unharm corps , with trembl finger is set down in the log -- shoal , rock , and breaker hereabout : bewar ! and for year afterward , perhap , ship shun the place ; leap over it as silli sheep leap over a vacuum , becaus their leader origin leap there when a stick wa held . there ' s your law of preced ; there ' s your util of tradit ; there ' s the stori of your obstin surviv of old belief never bottom on the earth , and now not even hover in the air ! there ' s orthodoxi ! thu , while in life the great whale ' s bodi may have been a real terror to hi foe , in hi death hi ghost becom a powerless panic to a world . are you a believ in ghost , my friend ? there are other ghost than the cock - lane one , and far deeper men than doctor johnson who believ in them . chapter 70 the sphynx . It should not have been omit that previou to complet strip the bodi of the leviathan , he wa behead . now , the behead of the sperm whale is a scientif anatom feat , upon which experienc whale surgeon veri much pride themselv : and not without reason . consid that the whale ha noth that can properli be call a neck ; on the contrari , where hi head and bodi seem to join , there , in that veri place , is the thickest part of him . rememb , also , that the surgeon must oper from abov , some eight or ten feet interven between him and hi subject , and that subject almost hidden in a discolour , roll , and oftentim tumultu and burst sea . bear in mind , too , that under these untoward circumst he ha to cut mani feet deep in the flesh ; and in that subterran manner , without so much as get one singl peep into the ever - contract gash thu made , he must skil steer clear of all adjac , interdict part , and exactli divid the spine at a critic point hard by it insert into the skull . Do you not marvel , then , at stubb ' s boast , that he demand but ten minut to behead a sperm whale ? when first sever , the head is drop astern and held there by a cabl till the bodi is strip . that done , if it belong to a small whale it is hoist on deck to be deliber dispos of . but , with a full grown leviathan thi is imposs ; for the sperm whale ' s head embrac nearli one third of hi entir bulk , and complet to suspend such a burden as that , even by the immens tackl of a whaler , thi were as vain a thing as to attempt weigh a dutch barn in jewel ' scale . the pequod ' s whale be decapit and the bodi strip , the head wa hoist against the ship ' s side -- about half way out of the sea , so that it might yet in great part be buoy up by it nativ element . and there with the strain craft steepli lean over to it , by reason of the enorm downward drag from the lower mast - head , and everi yard - arm on that side project like a crane over the wave ; there , that blood - drip head hung to the pequod ' s waist like the giant holofern ' s from the girdl of judith . when thi last task wa accomplish it wa noon , and the seamen went below to their dinner . silenc reign over the befor tumultu but now desert deck . An intens copper calm , like a univers yellow lotu , wa more and more unfold it noiseless measureless leav upon the sea . A short space elaps , and up into thi noiseless came ahab alon from hi cabin . take a few turn on the quarter - deck , he paus to gaze over the side , then slowli get into the main - chain he took stubb ' s long spade -- still remain there after the whale ' s decapit -- and strike it into the lower part of the half - suspend mass , place it other end crutch - wise under one arm , and so stood lean over with eye attent fix on thi head . It wa a black and hood head ; and hang there in the midst of so intens a calm , it seem the sphynx ' s in the desert . `` speak , thou vast and vener head , '' mutter ahab , `` which , though ungarnish with a beard , yet here and there lookest hoari with moss ; speak , mighti head , and tell us the secret thing that is in thee . Of all diver , thou hast dive the deepest . that head upon which the upper sun now gleam , ha move amid thi world ' s foundat . where unrecord name and navi rust , and untold hope and anchor rot ; where in her murder hold thi frigat earth is ballast with bone of million of the drown ; there , in that aw water - land , there wa thi most familiar home . thou hast been where bell or diver never went ; hast slept by mani a sailor ' s side , where sleepless mother would give their live to lay them down . thou saw ' st the lock lover when leap from their flame ship ; heart to heart they sank beneath the exult wave ; true to each other , when heaven seem fals to them . thou saw ' st the murder mate when toss by pirat from the midnight deck ; for hour he fell into the deeper midnight of the insati maw ; and hi murder still sail on unharm -- while swift lightn shiver the neighbor ship that would have born a righteou husband to outstretch , long arm . O head ! thou hast seen enough to split the planet and make an infidel of abraham , and not one syllabl is thine ! '' `` sail ho ! '' cri a triumphant voic from the main - mast - head . `` aye ? well , now , that ' s cheer , '' cri ahab , suddenli erect himself , while whole thunder - cloud swept asid from hi brow . `` that live cri upon thi deadli calm might almost convert a better man . -- where away ? '' `` three point on the starboard bow , sir , and bring down her breez to us ! `` better and better , man . would now St . paul would come along that way , and to my breezeless bring hi breez ! O natur , and O soul of man ! how far beyond all utter are your link analog ! not the smallest atom stir or live on matter , but ha it cun duplic in mind . '' chapter 71 the jeroboam ' s stori . hand in hand , ship and breez blew on ; but the breez came faster than the ship , and soon the pequod began to rock . By and by , through the glass the stranger ' s boat and man mast - head prove her a whale - ship . but as she wa so far to windward , and shoot by , appar make a passag to some other ground , the pequod could not hope to reach her . So the signal wa set to see what respons would be made . here be it said , that like the vessel of militari marin , the ship of the american whale fleet have each a privat signal ; all which signal be collect in a book with the name of the respect vessel attach , everi captain is provid with it . therebi , the whale command are enabl to recognis each other upon the ocean , even at consider distanc and with no small facil . the pequod ' s signal wa at last respond to by the stranger ' s set her own ; which prove the ship to be the jeroboam of nantucket . squar her yard , she bore down , rang abeam under the pequod ' s lee , and lower a boat ; it soon drew nigh ; but , as the side - ladder wa be rig by starbuck ' s order to accommod the visit captain , the stranger in question wave hi hand from hi boat ' s stern in token of that proceed be entir unnecessari . It turn out that the jeroboam had a malign epidem on board , and that mayhew , her captain , wa fear of infect the pequod ' s compani . for , though himself and boat ' s crew remain untaint , and though hi ship wa half a rifl - shot off , and an incorrupt sea and air roll and flow between ; yet conscienti adher to the timid quarantin of the land , he peremptorili refus to come into direct contact with the pequod . but thi did by no mean prevent all commun . preserv an interv of some few yard between itself and the ship , the jeroboam ' s boat by the occasion use of it oar contriv to keep parallel to the pequod , as she heavili forg through the sea ( for by thi time it blew veri fresh ) , with her main - topsail aback ; though , inde , at time by the sudden onset of a larg roll wave , the boat would be push some way ahead ; but would be soon skil brought to her proper bear again . subject to thi , and other the like interrupt now and then , a convers wa sustain between the two parti ; but at interv not without still anoth interrupt of a veri differ sort . pull an oar in the jeroboam ' s boat , wa a man of a singular appear , even in that wild whale life where individu notabl make up all total . He wa a small , short , youngish man , sprinkl all over hi face with freckl , and wear redund yellow hair . A long - skirt , cabalist - cut coat of a fade walnut ting envelop him ; the overlap sleev of which were roll up on hi wrist . A deep , settl , fanat delirium wa in hi eye . So soon as thi figur had been first descri , stubb had exclaim -- '' that ' s he ! that ' s he ! -- the long - tog scaramouch the town - Ho ' s compani told us of ! '' stubb here allud to a strang stori told of the jeroboam , and a certain man among her crew , some time previou when the pequod spoke the town - Ho . accord to thi account and what wa subsequ learn , it seem that the scaramouch in question had gain a wonder ascend over almost everybodi in the jeroboam . hi stori wa thi : He had been origin nurtur among the crazi societi of neskyeuna shaker , where he had been a great prophet ; in their crack , secret meet have sever time descend from heaven by the way of a trap - door , announc the speedi open of the seventh vial , which he carri in hi vest - pocket ; but , which , instead of contain gunpowd , wa suppos to be charg with laudanum . A strang , apostol whim have seiz him , he had left neskyeuna for nantucket , where , with that cun peculiar to crazi , he assum a steadi , common - sens exterior , and offer himself as a green - hand candid for the jeroboam ' s whale voyag . they engag him ; but straightway upon the ship ' s get out of sight of land , hi insan broke out in a freshet . He announc himself as the archangel gabriel , and command the captain to jump overboard . He publish hi manifesto , wherebi he set himself forth as the deliver of the isl of the sea and vicar - gener of all oceanica . the unflinch earnest with which he declar these thing ; -- the dark , dare play of hi sleepless , excit imagin , and all the preternatur terror of real delirium , unit to invest thi gabriel in the mind of the major of the ignor crew , with an atmospher of sacred . moreov , they were afraid of him . As such a man , howev , wa not of much practic use in the ship , especi as he refus to work except when he pleas , the incredul captain would fain have been rid of him ; but appris that that individu ' s intent wa to land him in the first conveni port , the archangel forthwith open all hi seal and vial -- devot the ship and all hand to uncondit perdit , in case thi intent wa carri out . So strongli did he work upon hi discipl among the crew , that at last in a bodi they went to the captain and told him if gabriel wa sent from the ship , not a man of them would remain . He wa therefor forc to relinquish hi plan . nor would they permit gabriel to be ani way maltreat , say or do what he would ; so that it came to pass that gabriel had the complet freedom of the ship . the consequ of all thi wa , that the archangel care littl or noth for the captain and mate ; and sinc the epidem had broken out , he carri a higher hand than ever ; declar that the plagu , as he call it , wa at hi sole command ; nor should it be stay but accord to hi good pleasur . the sailor , mostli poor devil , cring , and some of them fawn befor him ; in obedi to hi instruct , sometim render him person homag , as to a god . such thing may seem incred ; but , howev wondrou , they are true . nor is the histori of fanat half so strike in respect to the measureless self - decept of the fanat himself , as hi measureless power of deceiv and bedevil so mani other . but it is time to return to the pequod . `` I fear not thi epidem , man , '' said ahab from the bulwark , to captain mayhew , who stood in the boat ' s stern ; `` come on board . '' but now gabriel start to hi feet . `` think , think of the fever , yellow and biliou ! bewar of the horribl plagu ! '' `` gabriel ! gabriel ! '' cri captain mayhew ; `` thou must either -- '' but that instant a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead , and it seeth drown all speech . `` hast thou seen the white whale ? '' demand ahab , when the boat drift back . `` think , think of thi whale - boat , stoven and sunk ! bewar of the horribl tail ! '' `` I tell thee again , gabriel , that -- '' but again the boat tore ahead as if drag by fiend . noth wa said for some moment , while a success of riotou wave roll by , which by one of those occasion capric of the sea were tumbl , not heav it . meantim , the hoist sperm whale ' s head jog about veri violent , and gabriel wa seen eye it with rather more apprehens than hi archangel natur seem to warrant . when thi interlud wa over , captain mayhew began a dark stori concern mobi dick ; not , howev , without frequent interrupt from gabriel , whenev hi name wa mention , and the crazi sea that seem leagu with him . It seem that the jeroboam had not long left home , when upon speak a whale - ship , her peopl were reliabl appris of the exist of mobi dick , and the havoc he had made . greedili suck in thi intellig , gabriel solemnli warn the captain against attack the white whale , in case the monster should be seen ; in hi gibber insan , pronounc the white whale to be no less a be than the shaker god incarn ; the shaker receiv the bibl . but when , some year or two afterward , mobi dick wa fairli sight from the mast - head , macey , the chief mate , burn with ardour to encount him ; and the captain himself be not unwil to let him have the opportun , despit all the archangel ' s denunci and forewarn , macey succeed in persuad five men to man hi boat . with them he push off ; and , after much weari pull , and mani peril , unsuccess onset , he at last succeed in get one iron fast . meantim , gabriel , ascend to the main - royal mast - head , wa toss one arm in frantic gestur , and hurl forth propheci of speedi doom to the sacrilegi assail of hi divin . now , while macey , the mate , wa stand up in hi boat ' s bow , and with all the reckless energi of hi tribe wa vent hi wild exclam upon the whale , and essay to get a fair chanc for hi pois lanc , lo ! a broad white shadow rose from the sea ; by it quick , fan motion , temporarili take the breath out of the bodi of the oarsmen . next instant , the luckless mate , so full of furiou life , wa smitten bodili into the air , and make a long arc in hi descent , fell into the sea at the distanc of about fifti yard . not a chip of the boat wa harm , nor a hair of ani oarsman ' s head ; but the mate for ever sank . It is well to parenthes here , that of the fatal accid in the sperm - whale fisheri , thi kind is perhap almost as frequent as ani . sometim , noth is injur but the man who is thu annihil ; often the boat ' s bow is knock off , or the thigh - board , in which the headsman stand , is torn from it place and accompani the bodi . but strangest of all is the circumst , that in more instanc than one , when the bodi ha been recov , not a singl mark of violenc is discern ; the man be stark dead . the whole calam , with the fall form of macey , wa plainli descri from the ship . rais a pierc shriek -- '' the vial ! the vial ! '' gabriel call off the terror - stricken crew from the further hunt of the whale . thi terribl event cloth the archangel with ad influenc ; becaus hi credul discipl believ that he had specif fore - announc it , instead of onli make a gener propheci , which ani one might have done , and so have chanc to hit one of mani mark in the wide margin allow . He becam a nameless terror to the ship . mayhew have conclud hi narrat , ahab put such question to him , that the stranger captain could not forbear inquir whether he intend to hunt the white whale , if opportun should offer . To which ahab answer -- '' aye . '' straightway , then , gabriel onc more start to hi feet , glare upon the old man , and vehement exclaim , with downward point finger -- '' think , think of the blasphem -- dead , and down there ! -- bewar of the blasphem ' s end ! '' ahab stolidli turn asid ; then said to mayhew , `` captain , I have just bethought me of my letter - bag ; there is a letter for one of thi offic , if I mistak not . starbuck , look over the bag . '' everi whale - ship take out a goodli number of letter for variou ship , whose deliveri to the person to whom they may be address , depend upon the mere chanc of encount them in the four ocean . thu , most letter never reach their mark ; and mani are onli receiv after attain an age of two or three year or more . soon starbuck return with a letter in hi hand . It wa sore tumbl , damp , and cover with a dull , spot , green mould , in consequ of be kept in a dark locker of the cabin . Of such a letter , death himself might well have been the post - boy . `` can ' st not read it ? '' cri ahab . `` give it me , man . aye , aye , it ' s but a dim scrawl ; -- what ' s thi ? '' As he wa studi it out , starbuck took a long cut - spade pole , and with hi knife slightli split the end , to insert the letter there , and in that way , hand it to the boat , without it come ani closer to the ship . meantim , ahab hold the letter , mutter , `` Mr . har -- ye , Mr . harri -- ( a woman ' s pinni hand , -- the man ' s wife , I ' ll wager ) -- aye -- Mr . harri macey , ship jeroboam ; -- whi it ' s macey , and he ' s dead ! '' `` poor fellow ! poor fellow ! and from hi wife , '' sigh mayhew ; `` but let me have it . '' `` nay , keep it thyself , '' cri gabriel to ahab ; `` thou art soon go that way . '' `` curs throttl thee ! '' yell ahab . `` captain mayhew , stand by now to receiv it `` ; and take the fatal missiv from starbuck ' s hand , he caught it in the slit of the pole , and reach it over toward the boat . but as he did so , the oarsmen expectantli desist from row ; the boat drift a littl toward the ship ' s stern ; so that , as if by magic , the letter suddenli rang along with gabriel ' s eager hand . He clutch it in an instant , seiz the boat - knife , and impal the letter on it , sent it thu load back into the ship . It fell at ahab ' s feet . then gabriel shriek out to hi comrad to give way with their oar , and in that manner the mutin boat rapidli shot away from the pequod . As , after thi interlud , the seamen resum their work upon the jacket of the whale , mani strang thing were hint in refer to thi wild affair . chapter 72 the monkey - rope . In the tumultu busi of cut - in and attend to a whale , there is much run backward and forward among the crew . now hand are want here , and then again hand are want there . there is no stay in ani one place ; for at one and the same time everyth ha to be done everywher . It is much the same with him who endeavor the descript of the scene . We must now retrac our way a littl . It wa mention that upon first break ground in the whale ' s back , the blubber - hook wa insert into the origin hole there cut by the spade of the mate . but how did so clumsi and weighti a mass as that same hook get fix in that hole ? It wa insert there by my particular friend queequeg , whose duti it wa , as harpoon , to descend upon the monster ' s back for the special purpos refer to . but in veri mani case , circumst requir that the harpoon shall remain on the whale till the whole tens or strip oper is conclud . the whale , be it observ , lie almost entir submerg , except the immedi part oper upon . So down there , some ten feet below the level of the deck , the poor harpoon flounder about , half on the whale and half in the water , as the vast mass revolv like a tread - mill beneath him . On the occas in question , queequeg figur in the highland costum -- a shirt and sock -- in which to my eye , at least , he appear to uncommon advantag ; and no one had a better chanc to observ him , as will present be seen . be the savag ' s bowsman , that is , the person who pull the bow - oar in hi boat ( the second one from forward ) , it wa my cheer duti to attend upon him while take that hard - scrabbl scrambl upon the dead whale ' s back . you have seen italian organ - boy hold a danc - ape by a long cord . just so , from the ship ' s steep side , did I hold queequeg down there in the sea , by what is technic call in the fisheri a monkey - rope , attach to a strong strip of canva belt round hi waist . It wa a humor peril busi for both of us . for , befor we proceed further , it must be said that the monkey - rope wa fast at both end ; fast to queequeg ' s broad canva belt , and fast to my narrow leather one . So that for better or for wors , we two , for the time , were wed ; and should poor queequeg sink to rise no more , then both usag and honour demand , that instead of cut the cord , it should drag me down in hi wake . So , then , an elong siames ligatur unit us . queequeg wa my own insepar twin brother ; nor could I ani way get rid of the danger liabil which the hempen bond entail . So strongli and metaphys did I conceiv of my situat then , that while earnestli watch hi motion , I seem distinctli to perceiv that my own individu wa now merg in a joint stock compani of two ; that my free will had receiv a mortal wound ; and that anoth ' s mistak or misfortun might plung innoc me into unmerit disast and death . therefor , I saw that here wa a sort of interregnum in provid ; for it even - hand equiti never could have so gross an injustic . and yet still further ponder -- while I jerk him now and then from between the whale and ship , which would threaten to jam him -- still further ponder , I say , I saw that thi situat of mine wa the precis situat of everi mortal that breath ; onli , in most case , he , one way or other , ha thi siames connexion with a plural of other mortal . If your banker break , you snap ; if your apothecari by mistak send you poison in your pill , you die . true , you may say that , by exceed caution , you may possibl escap these and the multitudin other evil chanc of life . but handl queequeg ' s monkey - rope heed as I would , sometim he jerk it so , that I came veri near slide overboard . nor could I possibl forget that , do what I would , I onli had the manag of one end of it . * * the monkey - rope is found in all whaler ; but it wa onli in the pequod that the monkey and hi holder were ever tie togeth . thi improv upon the origin usag wa introduc by no less a man than stubb , in order to afford the imperil harpoon the strongest possibl guarante for the faith and vigil of hi monkey - rope holder . I have hint that I would often jerk poor queequeg from between the whale and the ship -- where he would occasion fall , from the incess roll and sway of both . but thi wa not the onli jam jeopardi he wa expos to . unappal by the massacr made upon them dure the night , the shark now freshli and more keenli allur by the befor pent blood which began to flow from the carcass -- the rabid creatur swarm round it like bee in a beehiv . and right in among those shark wa queequeg ; who often push them asid with hi flounder feet . A thing altogeth incred were it not that attract by such prey as a dead whale , the otherwis miscellan carnivor shark will seldom touch a man . nevertheless , it may well be believ that sinc they have such a raven finger in the pie , it is deem but wise to look sharp to them . accordingli , besid the monkey - rope , with which I now and then jerk the poor fellow from too close a vicin to the maw of what seem a peculiarli feroci shark -- he wa provid with still anoth protect . suspend over the side in one of the stage , tashtego and daggoo continu flourish over hi head a coupl of keen whale - spade , wherewith they slaughter as mani shark as they could reach . thi procedur of their , to be sure , wa veri disinterest and benevol of them . they meant queequeg ' s best happi , I admit ; but in their hasti zeal to befriend him , and from the circumst that both he and the shark were at time half hidden by the blood - muddl water , those indiscreet spade of their would come nearer amput a leg than a tall . but poor queequeg , I suppos , strain and gasp there with that great iron hook -- poor queequeg , I suppos , onli pray to hi yojo , and gave up hi life into the hand of hi god . well , well , my dear comrad and twin - brother , thought I , as I drew in and then slack off the rope to everi swell of the sea -- what matter it , after all ? are you not the preciou imag of each and all of us men in thi whale world ? that unsound ocean you gasp in , is life ; those shark , your foe ; those spade , your friend ; and what between shark and spade you are in a sad pickl and peril , poor lad . but courag ! there is good cheer in store for you , queequeg . for now , as with blue lip and blood - shot eye the exhaust savag at last climb up the chain and stand all drip and involuntarili trembl over the side ; the steward advanc , and with a benevol , consolatori glanc hand him -- what ? some hot cognac ? No ! hand him , ye god ! hand him a cup of tepid ginger and water ! `` ginger ? Do I smell ginger ? '' suspici ask stubb , come near . `` ye , thi must be ginger , '' peer into the as yet untast cup . then stand as if incredul for a while , he calmli walk toward the astonish steward slowli say , `` ginger ? ginger ? and will you have the good to tell me , Mr . dough - boy , where lie the virtu of ginger ? ginger ! is ginger the sort of fuel you use , dough - boy , to kindl a fire in thi shiver cannib ? ginger ! -- what the devil is ginger ? -- sea - coal ? firewood ? -- lucif match ? -- tinder ? -- gunpowd ? -- what the devil is ginger , I say , that you offer thi cup to our poor queequeg here . '' `` there is some sneak temper societi movement about thi busi , '' he suddenli ad , now approach starbuck , who had just come from forward . `` will you look at that kannakin , sir ; smell of it , if you pleas . '' then watch the mate ' s counten , he ad , `` the steward , Mr . starbuck , had the face to offer that calomel and jalap to queequeg , there , thi instant off the whale . Is the steward an apothecari , sir ? and may I ask whether thi is the sort of bitter by which he blow back the life into a half - drown man ? '' `` I trust not , '' said starbuck , `` it is poor stuff enough . '' `` aye , aye , steward , '' cri stubb , `` we ' ll teach you to drug it harpoon ; none of your apothecari ' s medicin here ; you want to poison us , do ye ? you have got out insur on our live and want to murder us all , and pocket the proce , do ye ? '' `` It wa not me , '' cri dough - boy , `` it wa aunt chariti that brought the ginger on board ; and bade me never give the harpoon ani spirit , but onli thi ginger - jub -- so she call it . '' `` ginger - jub ! you gingerli rascal ! take that ! and run along with ye to the locker , and get someth better . I hope I do no wrong , Mr . starbuck . It is the captain ' s order -- grog for the harpoon on a whale . '' `` enough , '' repli starbuck , `` onli don ' t hit him again , but -- '' `` Oh , I never hurt when I hit , except when I hit a whale or someth of that sort ; and thi fellow ' s a weazel . what were you about say , sir ? '' `` onli thi : go down with him , and get what thou wantest thyself . '' when stubb reappear , he came with a dark flask in one hand , and a sort of tea - caddi in the other . the first contain strong spirit , and wa hand to queequeg ; the second wa aunt chariti ' s gift , and that wa freeli given to the wave . chapter 73 stubb and flask kill a right whale ; and then have a talk over him . It must be born in mind that all thi time we have a sperm whale ' s prodigi head hang to the pequod ' s side . but we must let it continu hang there a while till we can get a chanc to attend to it . for the present other matter press , and the best we can do now for the head , is to pray heaven the tackl may hold . now , dure the past night and forenoon , the pequod had gradual drift into a sea , which , by it occasion patch of yellow brit , gave unusu token of the vicin of right whale , a speci of the leviathan that but few suppos to be at thi particular time lurk anywher near . and though all hand commonli disdain the captur of those inferior creatur ; and though the pequod wa not commiss to cruis for them at all , and though she had pass number of them near the crozett without lower a boat ; yet now that a sperm whale had been brought alongsid and behead , to the surpris of all , the announc wa made that a right whale should be captur that day , if opportun offer . nor wa thi long want . tall spout were seen to leeward ; and two boat , stubb ' s and flask ' s , were detach in pursuit . pull further and further away , they at last becam almost invis to the men at the mast - head . but suddenli in the distanc , they saw a great heap of tumultu white water , and soon after news came from aloft that one or both the boat must be fast . An interv pass and the boat were in plain sight , in the act of be drag right toward the ship by the tow whale . So close did the monster come to the hull , that at first it seem as if he meant it malic ; but suddenli go down in a maelstrom , within three rod of the plank , he wholli disappear from view , as if dive under the keel . `` cut , cut ! '' wa the cri from the ship to the boat , which , for one instant , seem on the point of be brought with a deadli dash against the vessel ' s side . but have plenti of line yet in the tub , and the whale not sound veri rapidli , they paid out abund of rope , and at the same time pull with all their might so as to get ahead of the ship . for a few minut the struggl wa intens critic ; for while they still slack out the tighten line in one direct , and still pli their oar in anoth , the contend strain threaten to take them under . but it wa onli a few feet advanc they sought to gain . and they stuck to it till they did gain it ; when instantli , a swift tremor wa felt run like lightn along the keel , as the strain line , scrape beneath the ship , suddenli rose to view under her bow , snap and quiver ; and so fling off it drip , that the drop fell like bit of broken glass on the water , while the whale beyond also rose to sight , and onc more the boat were free to fli . but the fag whale abat hi speed , and blindli alter hi cours , went round the stern of the ship tow the two boat after him , so that they perform a complet circuit . meantim , they haul more and more upon their line , till close flank him on both side , stubb answer flask with lanc for lanc ; and thu round and round the pequod the battl went , while the multitud of shark that had befor swum round the sperm whale ' s bodi , rush to the fresh blood that wa spill , thirstili drink at everi new gash , as the eager israelit did at the new burst fountain that pour from the smitten rock . At last hi spout grew thick , and with a fright roll and vomit , he turn upon hi back a corps . while the two headsmen were engag in make fast cord to hi fluke , and in other way get the mass in readi for tow , some convers ensu between them . `` I wonder what the old man want with thi lump of foul lard , '' said stubb , not without some disgust at the thought of have to do with so ignobl a leviathan . `` want with it ? '' said flask , coil some spare line in the boat ' s bow , `` did you never hear that the ship which but onc ha a sperm whale ' s head hoist on her starboard side , and at the same time a right whale ' s on the larboard ; did you never hear , stubb , that that ship can never afterward capsiz ? '' `` whi not ? `` I don ' t know , but I heard that gambog ghost of a fedallah say so , and he seem to know all about ship ' charm . but I sometim think he ' ll charm the ship to no good at last . I don ' t half like that chap , stubb . did you ever notic how that tusk of hi is a sort of carv into a snake ' s head , stubb ? '' `` sink him ! I never look at him at all ; but if ever I get a chanc of a dark night , and he stand hard by the bulwark , and no one by ; look down there , flask `` -- point into the sea with a peculiar motion of both hand -- '' aye , will I ! flask , I take that fedallah to be the devil in disguis . Do you believ that cock and bull stori about hi have been stow away on board ship ? He ' s the devil , I say . the reason whi you don ' t see hi tail , is becaus he tuck it up out of sight ; he carri it coil away in hi pocket , I guess . blast him ! now that I think of it , he ' s alway want oakum to stuff into the toe of hi boot . '' `` He sleep in hi boot , don ' t he ? He hasn ' t got ani hammock ; but I ' ve seen him lay of night in a coil of rig . '' `` No doubt , and it ' s becaus of hi curs tail ; he coil it down , do ye see , in the eye of the rig . '' `` what ' s the old man have so much to do with him for ? '' `` strike up a swap or a bargain , I suppos . '' `` bargain ? -- about what ? '' `` whi , do ye see , the old man is hard bent after that white whale , and the devil there is tri to come round him , and get him to swap away hi silver watch , or hi soul , or someth of that sort , and then he ' ll surrend mobi dick . '' `` pooh ! stubb , you are skylark ; how can fedallah do that ? '' `` I don ' t know , flask , but the devil is a curiou chap , and a wick one , I tell ye . whi , they say as how he went a saunter into the old flag - ship onc , switch hi tail about devilish easi and gentlemanlik , and inquir if the old governor wa at home . well , he wa at home , and ask the devil what he want . the devil , switch hi hoof , up and say , ' I want john . ' ' what for ? ' say the old governor . ' what busi is that of your , ' say the devil , get mad , -- ' I want to use him . ' ' take him , ' say the governor -- and by the lord , flask , if the devil didn ' t give john the asiat cholera befor he got through with him , I ' ll eat thi whale in one mouth . but look sharp -- ain ' t you all readi there ? well , then , pull ahead , and let ' s get the whale alongsid . '' `` I think I rememb some such stori as you were tell , '' said flask , when at last the two boat were slowli advanc with their burden toward the ship , `` but I can ' t rememb where . '' `` three spaniard ? adventur of those three bloodi - mind solado ? did ye read it there , flask ? I guess ye did ? '' `` No : never saw such a book ; heard of it , though . but now , tell me , stubb , do you suppos that that devil you wa speak of just now , wa the same you say is now on board the pequod ? '' `` Am I the same man that help kill thi whale ? doesn ' t the devil live for ever ; who ever heard that the devil wa dead ? did you ever see ani parson a wear mourn for the devil ? and if the devil ha a latch - key to get into the admir ' s cabin , don ' t you suppos he can crawl into a porthol ? tell me that , Mr . flask ? '' `` how old do you suppos fedallah is , stubb ? '' `` Do you see that mainmast there ? '' point to the ship ; `` well , that ' s the figur one ; now take all the hoop in the pequod ' s hold , and string along in a row with that mast , for ought , do you see ; well , that wouldn ' t begin to be fedallah ' s age . nor all the cooper in creation couldn ' t show hoop enough to make ought enough . '' `` but see here , stubb , I thought you a littl boast just now , that you meant to give fedallah a sea - toss , if you got a good chanc . now , if he ' s so old as all those hoop of your come to , and if he is go to live for ever , what good will it do to pitch him overboard -- tell me that ? `` give him a good duck , anyhow . '' `` but he ' d crawl back . '' `` duck him again ; and keep duck him . '' `` suppos he should take it into hi head to duck you , though -- ye , and drown you -- what then ? '' `` I should like to see him tri it ; I ' d give him such a pair of black eye that he wouldn ' t dare to show hi face in the admir ' s cabin again for a long while , let alon down in the orlop there , where he live , and hereabout on the upper deck where he sneak so much . damn the devil , flask ; so you suppos I ' m afraid of the devil ? who ' s afraid of him , except the old governor who daresn ' t catch him and put him in doubl - darbi , as he deserv , but let him go about kidnap peopl ; aye , and sign a bond with him , that all the peopl the devil kidnap , he ' d roast for him ? there ' s a governor ! '' `` Do you suppos fedallah want to kidnap captain ahab ? '' `` Do I suppos it ? you ' ll know it befor long , flask . but I am go now to keep a sharp look - out on him ; and if I see anyth veri suspici go on , I ' ll just take him by the nape of hi neck , and say -- look here , beelzebub , you don ' t do it ; and if he make ani fuss , by the lord I ' ll make a grab into hi pocket for hi tail , take it to the capstan , and give him such a wrench and heav , that hi tail will come short off at the stump -- do you see ; and then , I rather guess when he find himself dock in that queer fashion , he ' ll sneak off without the poor satisfact of feel hi tail between hi leg . '' `` and what will you do with the tail , stubb ? '' `` Do with it ? sell it for an ox whip when we get home ; -- what els ? '' `` now , do you mean what you say , and have been say all along , stubb ? '' `` mean or not mean , here we are at the ship . '' the boat were here hail , to tow the whale on the larboard side , where fluke chain and other necessari were alreadi prepar for secur him . `` didn ' t I tell you so ? '' said flask ; `` ye , you ' ll soon see thi right whale ' s head hoist up opposit that parmacetti ' s . '' In good time , flask ' s say prove true . As befor , the pequod steepli lean over toward the sperm whale ' s head , now , by the counterpois of both head , she regain her even keel ; though sore strain , you may well believ . So , when on one side you hoist in lock ' s head , you go over that way ; but now , on the other side , hoist in kant ' s and you come back again ; but in veri poor plight . thu , some mind for ever keep trim boat . Oh , ye foolish ! throw all these thunder - head overboard , and then you will float light and right . In dispos of the bodi of a right whale , when brought alongsid the ship , the same preliminari proceed commonli take place as in the case of a sperm whale ; onli , in the latter instanc , the head is cut off whole , but in the former the lip and tongu are separ remov and hoist on deck , with all the well known black bone attach to what is call the crown - piec . but noth like thi , in the present case , had been done . the carcas of both whale had drop astern ; and the head - laden ship not a littl resembl a mule carri a pair of overburden pannier . meantim , fedallah wa calmli eye the right whale ' s head , and ever and anon glanc from the deep wrinkl there to the line in hi own hand . and ahab chanc so to stand , that the parse occupi hi shadow ; while , if the parse ' s shadow wa there at all it seem onli to blend with , and lengthen ahab ' s . As the crew toil on , laplandish specul were bandi among them , concern all these pass thing . chapter 74 the sperm whale ' s head -- contrast view . here , now , are two great whale , lay their head togeth ; let us join them , and lay togeth our own . Of the grand order of folio leviathan , the sperm whale and the right whale are by far the most noteworthi . they are the onli whale regularli hunt by man . To the nantucket , they present the two extrem of all the known varieti of the whale . As the extern differ between them is mainli observ in their head ; and as a head of each is thi moment hang from the pequod ' s side ; and as we may freeli go from one to the other , by mere step across the deck : -- where , I should like to know , will you obtain a better chanc to studi practic cetolog than here ? In the first place , you are struck by the gener contrast between these head . both are massiv enough in all conscienc ; but there is a certain mathemat symmetri in the sperm whale ' s which the right whale ' s sadli lack . there is more charact in the sperm whale ' s head . As you behold it , you involuntarili yield the immens superior to him , in point of pervad digniti . In the present instanc , too , thi digniti is heighten by the pepper and salt colour of hi head at the summit , give token of advanc age and larg experi . In short , he is what the fishermen technic call a `` grey - head whale . '' let us now note what is least dissimilar in these head -- name , the two most import organ , the eye and the ear . far back on the side of the head , and low down , near the angl of either whale ' s jaw , if you narrowli search , you will at last see a lashless eye , which you would fanci to be a young colt ' s eye ; so out of all proport is it to the magnitud of the head . now , from thi peculiar sideway posit of the whale ' s eye , it is plain that he can never see an object which is exactli ahead , no more than he can one exactli astern . In a word , the posit of the whale ' s eye correspond to that of a man ' s ear ; and you may fanci , for yourself , how it would fare with you , did you sideway survey object through your ear . you would find that you could onli command some thirti degre of vision in advanc of the straight side - line of sight ; and about thirti more behind it . If your bitterest foe were walk straight toward you , with dagger uplift in broad day , you would not be abl to see him , ani more than if he were steal upon you from behind . In a word , you would have two back , so to speak ; but , at the same time , also , two front ( side front ) : for what is it that make the front of a man -- what , inde , but hi eye ? moreov , while in most other anim that I can now think of , the eye are so plant as impercept to blend their visual power , so as to produc one pictur and not two to the brain ; the peculiar posit of the whale ' s eye , effectu divid as they are by mani cubic feet of solid head , which tower between them like a great mountain separ two lake in valley ; thi , of cours , must wholli separ the impress which each independ organ impart . the whale , therefor , must see one distinct pictur on thi side , and anoth distinct pictur on that side ; while all between must be profound dark and nothing to him . man may , in effect , be said to look out on the world from a sentri - box with two join sash for hi window . but with the whale , these two sash are separ insert , make two distinct window , but sadli impair the view . thi peculiar of the whale ' s eye is a thing alway to be born in mind in the fisheri ; and to be rememb by the reader in some subsequ scene . A curiou and most puzzl question might be start concern thi visual matter as touch the leviathan . but I must be content with a hint . So long as a man ' s eye are open in the light , the act of see is involuntari ; that is , he can not then help mechan see whatev object are befor him . nevertheless , ani one ' s experi will teach him , that though he can take in an undiscrimin sweep of thing at one glanc , it is quit imposs for him , attent , and complet , to examin ani two thing -- howev larg or howev small -- at one and the same instant of time ; never mind if they lie side by side and touch each other . but if you now come to separ these two object , and surround each by a circl of profound dark ; then , in order to see one of them , in such a manner as to bring your mind to bear on it , the other will be utterli exclud from your contemporari conscious . how is it , then , with the whale ? true , both hi eye , in themselv , must simultan act ; but is hi brain so much more comprehens , combin , and subtl than man ' s , that he can at the same moment of time attent examin two distinct prospect , one on one side of him , and the other in an exactli opposit direct ? If he can , then is it as marvel a thing in him , as if a man were abl simultan to go through the demonstr of two distinct problem in euclid . nor , strictli investig , is there ani incongru in thi comparison . It may be but an idl whim , but it ha alway seem to me , that the extraordinari vacil of movement display by some whale when beset by three or four boat ; the timid and liabil to queer fright , so common to such whale ; I think that all thi indirectli proce from the helpless perplex of volit , in which their divid and diametr opposit power of vision must involv them . but the ear of the whale is full as curiou as the eye . If you are an entir stranger to their race , you might hunt over these two head for hour , and never discov that organ . the ear ha no extern leaf whatev ; and into the hole itself you can hardli insert a quill , so wondrous minut is it . It is lodg a littl behind the eye . with respect to their ear , thi import differ is to be observ between the sperm whale and the right . while the ear of the former ha an extern open , that of the latter is entir and evenli cover over with a membran , so as to be quit impercept from without . Is it not curiou , that so vast a be as the whale should see the world through so small an eye , and hear the thunder through an ear which is smaller than a hare ' s ? but if hi eye were broad as the len of herschel ' s great telescop ; and hi ear capaci as the porch of cathedr ; would that make him ani longer of sight , or sharper of hear ? not at all . -- whi then do you tri to `` enlarg `` your mind ? subtil it . let us now with whatev lever and steam - engin we have at hand , cant over the sperm whale ' s head , that it may lie bottom up ; then , ascend by a ladder to the summit , have a peep down the mouth ; and were it not that the bodi is now complet separ from it , with a lantern we might descend into the great kentucki mammoth cave of hi stomach . but let us hold on here by thi tooth , and look about us where we are . what a realli beauti and chast - look mouth ! from floor to ceil , line , or rather paper with a glisten white membran , glossi as bridal satin . but come out now , and look at thi portent lower jaw , which seem like the long narrow lid of an immens snuff - box , with the hing at one end , instead of one side . If you pri it up , so as to get it overhead , and expos it row of teeth , it seem a terrif portculli ; and such , ala ! it prove to mani a poor wight in the fisheri , upon whom these spike fall with impal forc . but far more terribl is it to behold , when fathom down in the sea , you see some sulki whale , float there suspend , with hi prodigi jaw , some fifteen feet long , hang straight down at right - angl with hi bodi , for all the world like a ship ' s jib - boom . thi whale is not dead ; he is onli dispirit ; out of sort , perhap ; hypochondriac ; and so supin , that the hing of hi jaw have relax , leav him there in that ungainli sort of plight , a reproach to all hi tribe , who must , no doubt , imprec lock - jaw upon him . In most case thi lower jaw -- be easili unhing by a practis artist -- is disengag and hoist on deck for the purpos of extract the ivori teeth , and furnish a suppli of that hard white whalebon with which the fishermen fashion all sort of curiou articl , includ cane , umbrella - stock , and handl to ride - whip . with a long , weari hoist the jaw is drag on board , as if it were an anchor ; and when the proper time come -- some few day after the other work -- queequeg , daggoo , and tashtego , be all accomplish dentist , are set to draw teeth . with a keen cut - spade , queequeg lanc the gum ; then the jaw is lash down to ringbolt , and a tackl be rig from aloft , they drag out these teeth , as michigan oxen drag stump of old oak out of wild wood land . there are gener forti - two teeth in all ; in old whale , much worn down , but undecay ; nor fill after our artifici fashion . the jaw is afterward sawn into slab , and pile away like joist for build hous . chapter 75 the right whale ' s head -- contrast view . cross the deck , let us now have a good long look at the right whale ' s head . As in gener shape the nobl sperm whale ' s head may be compar to a roman war - chariot ( especi in front , where it is so broadli round ) ; so , at a broad view , the right whale ' s head bear a rather ineleg resembl to a gigant galliot - to shoe . two hundr year ago an old dutch voyag liken it shape to that of a shoemak ' s last . and in thi same last or shoe , that old woman of the nurseri tale , with the swarm brood , might veri comfort be lodg , she and all her progeni . but as you come nearer to thi great head it begin to assum differ aspect , accord to your point of view . If you stand on it summit and look at these two F - shape spouthol , you would take the whole head for an enorm bass - viol , and these spiracl , the apertur in it sound - board . then , again , if you fix your eye upon thi strang , crest , comb - like incrust on the top of the mass -- thi green , barnacl thing , which the greenland call the `` crown , '' and the southern fisher the `` bonnet `` of the right whale ; fix your eye sole on thi , you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak , with a bird ' s nest in it crotch . At ani rate , when you watch those live crab that nestl here on thi bonnet , such an idea will be almost sure to occur to you ; unless , inde , your fanci ha been fix by the technic term `` crown `` also bestow upon it ; in which case you will take great interest in think how thi mighti monster is actual a diadem king of the sea , whose green crown ha been put togeth for him in thi marvel manner . but if thi whale be a king , he is a veri sulki look fellow to grace a diadem . look at that hang lower lip ! what a huge sulk and pout is there ! a sulk and pout , by carpent ' s measur , about twenti feet long and five feet deep ; a sulk and pout that will yield you some 500 gallon of oil and more . A great piti , now , that thi unfortun whale should be hare - lip . the fissur is about a foot across . probabl the mother dure an import interv wa sail down the peruvian coast , when earthquak caus the beach to gape . over thi lip , as over a slipperi threshold , we now slide into the mouth . upon my word were I at mackinaw , I should take thi to be the insid of an indian wigwam . good lord ! is thi the road that jonah went ? the roof is about twelv feet high , and run to a pretti sharp angl , as if there were a regular ridg - pole there ; while these rib , arch , hairi side , present us with those wondrou , half vertic , scimetar - shape slat of whalebon , say three hundr on a side , which depend from the upper part of the head or crown bone , form those venetian blind which have elsewher been cursorili mention . the edg of these bone are fring with hairi fibr , through which the right whale strain the water , and in whose intricaci he retain the small fish , when openmouth he goe through the sea of brit in feed time . In the central blind of bone , as they stand in their natur order , there are certain curiou mark , curv , hollow , and ridg , wherebi some whalemen calcul the creatur ' s age , as the age of an oak by it circular ring . though the certainti of thi criterion is far from demonstr , yet it ha the savor of analog probabl . At ani rate , if we yield to it , we must grant a far greater age to the right whale than at first glanc will seem reason . In old time , there seem to have prevail the most curiou fanci concern these blind . one voyag in purcha call them the wondrou `` whisker `` insid of the whale ' s mouth ; * anoth , `` hog ' bristl `` ; a third old gentleman in hackluyt use the follow eleg languag : `` there are about two hundr and fifti fin grow on each side of hi upper chop , which arch over hi tongu on each side of hi mouth . '' * thi remind us that the right whale realli ha a sort of whisker , or rather a moustach , consist of a few scatter white hair on the upper part of the outer end of the lower jaw . sometim these tuft impart a rather brigandish express to hi otherwis solemn counten . As everi one know , these same `` hog ' bristl , '' `` fin , '' `` whisker , '' `` blind , '' or whatev you pleas , furnish to the ladi their busk and other stiffen contriv . but in thi particular , the demand ha long been on the declin . It wa in queen ann ' s time that the bone wa in it glori , the farthingal be then all the fashion . and as those ancient dame move about gaili , though in the jaw of the whale , as you may say ; even so , in a shower , with the like thoughtless , do we nowaday fli under the same jaw for protect ; the umbrella be a tent spread over the same bone . but now forget all about blind and whisker for a moment , and , stand in the right whale ' s mouth , look around you afresh . see all these colonnad of bone so method rang about , would you not think you were insid of the great haarlem organ , and gaze upon it thousand pipe ? for a carpet to the organ we have a rug of the softest turkey -- the tongu , which is glu , as it were , to the floor of the mouth . It is veri fat and tender , and apt to tear in piec in hoist it on deck . thi particular tongu now befor us ; at a pass glanc I should say it wa a six - barrel ; that is , it will yield you about that amount of oil . ere thi , you must have plainli seen the truth of what I start with -- that the sperm whale and the right whale have almost entir differ head . To sum up , then : in the right whale ' s there is no great well of sperm ; no ivori teeth at all ; no long , slender mandibl of a lower jaw , like the sperm whale ' s . nor in the sperm whale are there ani of those blind of bone ; no huge lower lip ; and scarc anyth of a tongu . again , the right whale ha two extern spout - hole , the sperm whale onli one . look your last , now , on these vener hood head , while they yet lie togeth ; for one will soon sink , unrecord , in the sea ; the other will not be veri long in follow . can you catch the express of the sperm whale ' s there ? It is the same he die with , onli some of the longer wrinkl in the forehead seem now fade away . I think hi broad brow to be full of a prairi - like placid , born of a specul indiffer as to death . but mark the other head ' s express . see that amaz lower lip , press by accid against the vessel ' s side , so as firmli to embrac the jaw . doe not thi whole head seem to speak of an enorm practic resolut in face death ? thi right whale I take to have been a stoic ; the sperm whale , a platonian , who might have taken up spinoza in hi latter year . chapter 76 the batter - ram . ere quit , for the nonc , the sperm whale ' s head , I would have you , as a sensibl physiologist , simpli -- particularli remark it front aspect , in all it compact collected . I would have you investig it now with the sole view of form to yourself some unexagger , intellig estim of whatev batter - ram power may be lodg there . here is a vital point ; for you must either satisfactorili settl thi matter with yourself , or for ever remain an infidel as to one of the most appal , but not the less true event , perhap anywher to be found in all record histori . you observ that in the ordinari swim posit of the sperm whale , the front of hi head present an almost wholli vertic plane to the water ; you observ that the lower part of that front slope consider backward , so as to furnish more of a retreat for the long socket which receiv the boom - like lower jaw ; you observ that the mouth is entir under the head , much in the same way , inde , as though your own mouth were entir under your chin . moreov you observ that the whale ha no extern nose ; and that what nose he ha -- hi spout hole -- is on the top of hi head ; you observ that hi eye and ear are at the side of hi head , nearli one third of hi entir length from the front . wherefor , you must now have perceiv that the front of the sperm whale ' s head is a dead , blind wall , without a singl organ or tender promin of ani sort whatsoev . furthermor , you are now to consid that onli in the extrem , lower , backward slope part of the front of the head , is there the slightest vestig of bone ; and not till you get near twenti feet from the forehead do you come to the full cranial develop . So that thi whole enorm boneless mass is as one wad . final , though , as will soon be reveal , it content partli compris the most delic oil ; yet , you are now to be appris of the natur of the substanc which so impregn invest all that appar effeminaci . In some previou place I have describ to you how the blubber wrap the bodi of the whale , as the rind wrap an orang . just so with the head ; but with thi differ : about the head thi envelop , though not so thick , is of a boneless tough , inestim by ani man who ha not handl it . the severest point harpoon , the sharpest lanc dart by the strongest human arm , impot rebound from it . It is as though the forehead of the sperm whale were pave with hors ' hoof . I do not think that ani sensat lurk in it . bethink yourself also of anoth thing . when two larg , load indiamen chanc to crowd and crush toward each other in the dock , what do the sailor do ? they do not suspend between them , at the point of come contact , ani mere hard substanc , like iron or wood . No , they hold there a larg , round wad of tow and cork , envelop in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide . that brave and uninjur take the jam which would have snap all their oaken handspik and iron crow - bar . By itself thi suffici illustr the obviou fact I drive at . but supplementari to thi , it ha hypothet occur to me , that as ordinari fish possess what is call a swim bladder in them , capabl , at will , of distens or contract ; and as the sperm whale , as far as I know , ha no such provis in him ; consid , too , the otherwis inexplic manner in which he now depress hi head altogeth beneath the surfac , and anon swim with it high elev out of the water ; consid the unobstruct elast of it envelop ; consid the uniqu interior of hi head ; it ha hypothet occur to me , I say , that those mystic lung - cell honeycomb there may possibl have some hitherto unknown and unsuspect connexion with the outer air , so as to be suscept to atmospher distens and contract . If thi be so , fanci the irresist of that might , to which the most impalp and destruct of all element contribut . now , mark . unerringli impel thi dead , impregn , uninjur wall , and thi most buoyant thing within ; there swim behind it all a mass of tremend life , onli to be adequ estim as pile wood is -- by the cord ; and all obedi to one volit , as the smallest insect . So that when I shall hereaft detail to you all the special and concentr of potenc everywher lurk in thi expans monster ; when I shall show you some of hi more inconsider brain feat ; I trust you will have renounc all ignor incredul , and be readi to abid by thi ; that though the sperm whale stove a passag through the isthmu of darien , and mix the atlant with the pacif , you would not elev one hair of your eye - brow . for unless you own the whale , you are but a provinci and sentimentalist in truth . but clear truth is a thing for salamand giant onli to encount ; how small the chanc for the provinci then ? what befel the weakl youth lift the dread goddess ' s veil at lai ? chapter 77 the great heidelburgh tun . now come the bale of the case . but to comprehend it aright , you must know someth of the curiou intern structur of the thing oper upon . regard the sperm whale ' s head as a solid oblong , you may , on an inclin plane , sideway divid it into two quoin , * whereof the lower is the boni structur , form the cranium and jaw , and the upper an unctuou mass wholli free from bone ; it broad forward end form the expand vertic appar forehead of the whale . At the middl of the forehead horizont subdivid thi upper quoin , and then you have two almost equal part , which befor were natur divid by an intern wall of a thick tendin substanc . * quoin is not a euclidean term . It belong to the pure nautic mathemat . I know not that it ha been defin befor . A quoin is a solid which differ from a wedg in have it sharp end form by the steep inclin of one side , instead of the mutual taper of both side . the lower subdivid part , call the junk , is one immens honeycomb of oil , form by the cross and recross , into ten thousand infiltr cell , of tough elast white fibr throughout it whole extent . the upper part , known as the case , may be regard as the great heidelburgh tun of the sperm whale . and as that famou great tierc is mystic carv in front , so the whale ' s vast plait forehead form innumer strang devic for the emblemat adorn of hi wondrou tun . moreov , as that of heidelburgh wa alway replenish with the most excel of the wine of the rhenish valley , so the tun of the whale contain by far the most preciou of all hi oili vintag ; name , the highli - prize spermaceti , in it absolut pure , limpid , and odorifer state . nor is thi preciou substanc found unalloy in ani other part of the creatur . though in life it remain perfectli fluid , yet , upon exposur to the air , after death , it soon begin to concret ; send forth beauti crystallin shoot , as when the first thin delic ice is just form in water . A larg whale ' s case gener yield about five hundr gallon of sperm , though from unavoid circumst , consider of it is spill , leak , and dribbl away , or is otherwis irrevoc lost in the ticklish busi of secur what you can . I know not with what fine and costli materi the heidelburgh tun wa coat within , but in superl rich that coat could not possibl have compar with the silken pearl - colour membran , like the line of a fine peliss , form the inner surfac of the sperm whale ' s case . It will have been seen that the heidelburgh tun of the sperm whale embrac the entir length of the entir top of the head ; and sinc -- as ha been elsewher set forth -- the head embrac one third of the whole length of the creatur , then set that length down at eighti feet for a good size whale , you have more than twenti - six feet for the depth of the tun , when it is lengthwis hoist up and down against a ship ' s side . As in decapit the whale , the oper ' s instrument is brought close to the spot where an entranc is subsequ forc into the spermaceti magazin ; he ha , therefor , to be uncommonli heed , lest a careless , untim stroke should invad the sanctuari and wastingli let out it invalu content . It is thi decapit end of the head , also , which is at last elev out of the water , and retain in that posit by the enorm cut tackl , whose hempen combin , on one side , make quit a wilder of rope in that quarter . thu much be said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvel and -- in thi particular instanc -- almost fatal oper wherebi the sperm whale ' s great heidelburgh tun is tap . chapter 78 cistern and bucket . nimbl as a cat , tashtego mount aloft ; and without alter hi erect postur , run straight out upon the overhang mainyard - arm , to the part where it exactli project over the hoist tun . He ha carri with him a light tackl call a whip , consist of onli two part , travel through a singl - sheav block . secur thi block , so that it hang down from the yard - arm , he swing one end of the rope , till it is caught and firmli held by a hand on deck . then , hand - over - hand , down the other part , the indian drop through the air , till dexter he land on the summit of the head . there -- still high elev abov the rest of the compani , to whom he vivaci cri -- he seem some turkish muezzin call the good peopl to prayer from the top of a tower . A short - handl sharp spade be sent up to him , he dilig search for the proper place to begin break into the tun . In thi busi he proce veri heed , like a treasur - hunter in some old hous , sound the wall to find where the gold is mason in . By the time thi cautiou search is over , a stout iron - bound bucket , precis like a well - bucket , ha been attach to one end of the whip ; while the other end , be stretch across the deck , is there held by two or three alert hand . these last now hoist the bucket within grasp of the indian , to whom anoth person ha reach up a veri long pole . insert thi pole into the bucket , tashtego downward guid the bucket into the tun , till it entir disappear ; then give the word to the seamen at the whip , up come the bucket again , all bubbl like a dairi - maid ' s pail of new milk . care lower from it height , the full - freight vessel is caught by an appoint hand , and quickli empti into a larg tub . then remount aloft , it again goe through the same round until the deep cistern will yield no more . toward the end , tashtego ha to ram hi long pole harder and harder , and deeper and deeper into the tun , until some twenti feet of the pole have gone down . now , the peopl of the pequod had been bale some time in thi way ; sever tub had been fill with the fragrant sperm ; when all at onc a queer accid happen . whether it wa that tashtego , that wild indian , wa so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment hi one - hand hold on the great cabl tackl suspend the head ; or whether the place where he stood wa so treacher and oozi ; or whether the evil one himself would have it to fall out so , without state hi particular reason ; how it wa exactli , there is no tell now ; but , on a sudden , as the eightieth or ninetieth bucket came suckingli up -- my god ! poor tashtego -- like the twin reciproc bucket in a verit well , drop head - foremost down into thi great tun of heidelburgh , and with a horribl oili gurgl , went clean out of sight ! `` man overboard ! '' cri daggoo , who amid the gener constern first came to hi sens . `` swing the bucket thi way ! '' and put one foot into it , so as the better to secur hi slipperi hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoister ran him high up to the top of the head , almost befor tashtego could have reach it interior bottom . meantim , there wa a terribl tumult . look over the side , they saw the befor lifeless head throb and heav just below the surfac of the sea , as if that moment seiz with some moment idea ; wherea it wa onli the poor indian unconsci reveal by those struggl the peril depth to which he had sunk . At thi instant , while daggoo , on the summit of the head , wa clear the whip -- which had somehow got foul of the great cut tackl -- a sharp crack nois wa heard ; and to the unspeak horror of all , one of the two enorm hook suspend the head tore out , and with a vast vibrat the enorm mass sideway swung , till the drunk ship reel and shook as if smitten by an iceberg . the one remain hook , upon which the entir strain now depend , seem everi instant to be on the point of give way ; an event still more like from the violent motion of the head . `` come down , come down ! '' yell the seamen to daggoo , but with one hand hold on to the heavi tackl , so that if the head should drop , he would still remain suspend ; the negro have clear the foul line , ram down the bucket into the now collaps well , mean that the buri harpoon should grasp it , and so be hoist out . `` In heaven ' s name , man , '' cri stubb , `` are you ram home a cartridg there ? -- avast ! how will that help him ; jam that iron - bound bucket on top of hi head ? avast , will ye ! '' `` stand clear of the tackl ! '' cri a voic like the burst of a rocket . almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enorm mass drop into the sea , like niagara ' s tabl - rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenli reliev hull roll away from it , to far down her glitter copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swing -- now over the sailor ' head , and now over the water -- daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , wa dimli beheld cling to the pendul tackl , while poor , buri - aliv tashtego wa sink utterli down to the bottom of the sea ! but hardli had the blind vapour clear away , when a nake figur with a board - sword in hi hand , wa for one swift moment seen hover over the bulwark . the next , a loud splash announc that my brave queequeg had dive to the rescu . one pack rush wa made to the side , and everi eye count everi rippl , as moment follow moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . some hand now jump into a boat alongsid , and push a littl off from the ship . `` Ha ! ha ! '' cri daggoo , all at onc , from hi now quiet , swing perch overhead ; and look further off from the side , we saw an arm thrust upright from the blue wave ; a sight strang to see , as an arm thrust forth from the grass over a grave . `` both ! both ! -- it is both ! '' -- cri daggoo again with a joy shout ; and soon after , queequeg wa seen boldli strike out with one hand , and with the other clutch the long hair of the indian . drawn into the wait boat , they were quickli brought to the deck ; but tashtego wa long in come to , and queequeg did not look veri brisk . now , how had thi nobl rescu been accomplish ? whi , dive after the slowli descend head , queequeg with hi keen sword had made side lung near it bottom , so as to scuttl a larg hole there ; then drop hi sword , had thrust hi long arm far inward and upward , and so haul out poor tash by the head . He aver , that upon first thrust in for him , a leg wa present ; but well know that that wa not as it ought to be , and might occas great troubl ; -- he had thrust back the leg , and by a dexter heav and toss , had wrought a somerset upon the indian ; so that with the next trial , he came forth in the good old way -- head foremost . As for the great head itself , that wa do as well as could be expect . and thu , through the courag and great skill in obstetr of queequeg , the deliver , or rather , deliveri of tashtego , wa success accomplish , in the teeth , too , of the most untoward and appar hopeless impedi ; which is a lesson by no mean to be forgotten . midwiferi should be taught in the same cours with fenc and box , ride and row . I know that thi queer adventur of the gay - header ' s will be sure to seem incred to some landsmen , though they themselv may have either seen or heard of some one ' s fall into a cistern ashor ; an accid which not seldom happen , and with much less reason too than the indian ' s , consid the exceed slipperi of the curb of the sperm whale ' s well . but , peradventur , it may be sagaci urg , how is thi ? We thought the tissu , infiltr head of the sperm whale , wa the lightest and most corki part about him ; and yet thou makest it sink in an element of a far greater specif graviti than itself . We have thee there . not at all , but I have ye ; for at the time poor tash fell in , the case had been nearli empti of it lighter content , leav littl but the dens tendin wall of the well -- a doubl weld , hammer substanc , as I have befor said , much heavier than the sea water , and a lump of which sink in it like lead almost . but the tendenc to rapid sink in thi substanc wa in the present instanc materi counteract by the other part of the head remain undetach from it , so that it sank veri slowli and deliber inde , afford queequeg a fair chanc for perform hi agil obstetr on the run , as you may say . ye , it wa a run deliveri , so it wa . now , had tashtego perish in that head , it had been a veri preciou perish ; smother in the veri whitest and daintiest of fragrant spermaceti ; coffin , hears , and tomb in the secret inner chamber and sanctum sanctorum of the whale . onli one sweeter end can readili be recal -- the delici death of an ohio honey - hunter , who seek honey in the crotch of a hollow tree , found such exceed store of it , that lean too far over , it suck him in , so that he die embalm . how mani , think ye , have likewis fallen into plato ' s honey head , and sweetli perish there ? chapter 79 the prairi . To scan the line of hi face , or feel the bump on the head of thi leviathan ; thi is a thing which no physiognomist or phrenologist ha as yet undertaken . such an enterpris would seem almost as hope as for lavat to have scrutin the wrinkl on the rock of gibraltar , or for gall to have mount a ladder and manipul the dome of the pantheon . still , in that famou work of hi , lavat not onli treat of the variou face of men , but also attent studi the face of hors , bird , serpent , and fish ; and dwell in detail upon the modif of express discern therein . nor have gall and hi discipl spurzheim fail to throw out some hint touch the phrenolog characterist of other be than man . therefor , though I am but ill qualifi for a pioneer , in the applic of these two semi - scienc to the whale , I will do my endeavor . I tri all thing ; I achiev what I can . physiognom regard , the sperm whale is an anomal creatur . He ha no proper nose . and sinc the nose is the central and most conspicu of the featur ; and sinc it perhap most modifi and final control their combin express ; henc it would seem that it entir absenc , as an extern appendag , must veri larg affect the counten of the whale . for as in landscap garden , a spire , cupola , monument , or tower of some sort , is deem almost indispens to the complet of the scene ; so no face can be physiognom in keep without the elev open - work belfri of the nose . dash the nose from phidia ' s marbl jove , and what a sorri remaind ! nevertheless , leviathan is of so mighti a magnitud , all hi proport are so state , that the same defici which in the sculptur jove were hideou , in him is no blemish at all . nay , it is an ad grandeur . A nose to the whale would have been impertin . As on your physiognom voyag you sail round hi vast head in your jolli - boat , your nobl concept of him are never insult by the reflect that he ha a nose to be pull . A pestil conceit , which so often will insist upon obtrud even when behold the mightiest royal beadl on hi throne . In some particular , perhap the most impos physiognom view to be had of the sperm whale , is that of the full front of hi head . thi aspect is sublim . In thought , a fine human brow is like the east when troubl with the morn . In the repos of the pastur , the curl brow of the bull ha a touch of the grand in it . push heavi cannon up mountain defil , the eleph ' s brow is majest . human or anim , the mystic brow is as that great golden seal affix by the german emperor to their decre . It signifi -- '' god : done thi day by my hand . '' but in most creatur , nay in man himself , veri often the brow is but a mere strip of alpin land lie along the snow line . few are the forehead which like shakespear ' s or melancthon ' s rise so high , and descend so low , that the eye themselv seem clear , etern , tideless mountain lake ; and all abov them in the forehead ' s wrinkl , you seem to track the antler thought descend there to drink , as the highland hunter track the snow print of the deer . but in the great sperm whale , thi high and mighti god - like digniti inher in the brow is so immens amplifi , that gaze on it , in that full front view , you feel the deiti and the dread power more forcibl than in behold ani other object in live natur . for you see no one point precis ; not one distinct featur is reveal ; no nose , eye , ear , or mouth ; no face ; he ha none , proper ; noth but that one broad firmament of a forehead , pleat with riddl ; dumbl lower with the doom of boat , and ship , and men . nor , in profil , doe thi wondrou brow diminish ; though that way view it grandeur doe not domin upon you so . In profil , you plainli perceiv that horizont , semi - crescent depress in the forehead ' s middl , which , in man , is lavat ' s mark of geniu . but how ? geniu in the sperm whale ? ha the sperm whale ever written a book , spoken a speech ? No , hi great geniu is declar in hi do noth particular to prove it . It is moreov declar in hi pyramid silenc . and thi remind me that had the great sperm whale been known to the young orient world , he would have been deifi by their child - magian thought . they deifi the crocodil of the nile , becaus the crocodil is tongueless ; and the sperm whale ha no tongu , or at least it is so exceedingli small , as to be incap of protrus . If hereaft ani highli cultur , poetic nation shall lure back to their birth - right , the merri may - day god of old ; and livingli enthron them again in the now egotist sky ; in the now unhaunt hill ; then be sure , exalt to jove ' s high seat , the great sperm whale shall lord it . champollion deciph the wrinkl granit hieroglyph . but there is no champollion to deciph the egypt of everi man ' s and everi be ' s face . physiognomi , like everi other human scienc , is but a pass fabl . If then , sir william jone , who read in thirti languag , could not read the simplest peasant ' s face in it profound and more subtl mean , how may unlett ishmael hope to read the aw chalde of the sperm whale ' s brow ? I but put that brow befor you . read it if you can . chapter 80 the nut . If the sperm whale be physiognom a sphinx , to the phrenologist hi brain seem that geometr circl which it is imposs to squar . In the full - grown creatur the skull will measur at least twenti feet in length . unhing the lower jaw , and the side view of thi skull is as the side of a moder inclin plane rest throughout on a level base . but in life -- as we have elsewher seen -- thi inclin plane is angularli fill up , and almost squar by the enorm superincumb mass of the junk and sperm . At the high end the skull form a crater to bed that part of the mass ; while under the long floor of thi crater -- in anoth caviti seldom exceed ten inch in length and as mani in depth -- repos the mere hand of thi monster ' s brain . the brain is at least twenti feet from hi appar forehead in life ; it is hidden away behind it vast outwork , like the innermost citadel within the amplifi fortif of quebec . So like a choic casket is it secret in him , that I have known some whalemen who peremptorili deni that the sperm whale ha ani other brain than that palpabl semblanc of one form by the cubic - yard of hi sperm magazin . ly in strang fold , cours , and convolut , to their apprehens , it seem more in keep with the idea of hi gener might to regard that mystic part of him as the seat of hi intellig . It is plain , then , that phrenolog the head of thi leviathan , in the creatur ' s live intact state , is an entir delus . As for hi true brain , you can then see no indic of it , nor feel ani . the whale , like all thing that are mighti , wear a fals brow to the common world . If you unload hi skull of it spermi heap and then take a rear view of it rear end , which is the high end , you will be struck by it resembl to the human skull , beheld in the same situat , and from the same point of view . inde , place thi revers skull ( scale down to the human magnitud ) among a plate of men ' s skull , and you would involuntarili confound it with them ; and remark the depress on one part of it summit , in phrenolog phrase you would say -- thi man had no self - esteem , and no vener . and by those negat , consid along with the affirm fact of hi prodigi bulk and power , you can best form to yourself the truest , though not the most exhilar concept of what the most exalt potenc is . but if from the compar dimens of the whale ' s proper brain , you deem it incap of be adequ chart , then I have anoth idea for you . If you attent regard almost ani quadrup ' s spine , you will be struck with the resembl of it vertebra to a strung necklac of dwarf skull , all bear rudiment resembl to the skull proper . It is a german conceit , that the vertebra are absolut undevelop skull . but the curiou extern resembl , I take it the german were not the first men to perceiv . A foreign friend onc point it out to me , in the skeleton of a foe he had slain , and with the vertebra of which he wa inlay , in a sort of basso - relievo , the beak prow of hi cano . now , I consid that the phrenologist have omit an import thing in not push their investig from the cerebellum through the spinal canal . for I believ that much of a man ' s charact will be found betoken in hi backbon . I would rather feel your spine than your skull , whoever you are . A thin joist of a spine never yet upheld a full and nobl soul . I rejoic in my spine , as in the firm audaci staff of that flag which I fling half out to the world . appli thi spinal branch of phrenolog to the sperm whale . hi cranial caviti is continu with the first neck - vertebra ; and in that vertebra the bottom of the spinal canal will measur ten inch across , be eight in height , and of a triangular figur with the base downward . As it pass through the remain vertebra the canal taper in size , but for a consider distanc remain of larg capac . now , of cours , thi canal is fill with much the same strang fibrou substanc -- the spinal cord -- as the brain ; and directli commun with the brain . and what is still more , for mani feet after emerg from the brain ' s caviti , the spinal cord remain of an undecreas girth , almost equal to that of the brain . under all these circumst , would it be unreason to survey and map out the whale ' s spine phrenolog ? for , view in thi light , the wonder compar small of hi brain proper is more than compens by the wonder compar magnitud of hi spinal cord . but leav thi hint to oper as it may with the phrenologist , I would mere assum the spinal theori for a moment , in refer to the sperm whale ' s hump . thi august hump , if I mistak not , rise over one of the larger vertebra , and is , therefor , in some sort , the outer convex mould of it . from it rel situat then , I should call thi high hump the organ of firm or indomit in the sperm whale . and that the great monster is indomit , you will yet have reason to know . chapter 81 the pequod meet the virgin . the predestin day arriv , and we duli met the ship jungfrau , derick De deer , master , of bremen . At one time the greatest whale peopl in the world , the dutch and german are now among the least ; but here and there at veri wide interv of latitud and longitud , you still occasion meet with their flag in the pacif . for some reason , the jungfrau seem quit eager to pay her respect . while yet some distanc from the pequod , she round to , and drop a boat , her captain wa impel toward us , impati stand in the bow instead of the stern . `` what ha he in hi hand there ? '' cri starbuck , point to someth wavingli held by the german . `` imposs ! -- a lamp - feeder ! '' `` not that , '' said stubb , `` no , no , it ' s a coffe - pot , Mr . starbuck ; he ' s come off to make us our coffe , is the yarman ; don ' t you see that big tin can there alongsid of him ? -- that ' s hi boil water . Oh ! he ' s all right , is the yarman . '' `` Go along with you , '' cri flask , `` it ' s a lamp - feeder and an oil - can . He ' s out of oil , and ha come a - beg . '' howev curiou it may seem for an oil - ship to be borrow oil on the whale - ground , and howev much it may invertedli contradict the old proverb about carri coal to newcastl , yet sometim such a thing realli happen ; and in the present case captain derick De deer did indubit conduct a lamp - feeder as flask did declar . As he mount the deck , ahab abruptli accost him , without at all heed what he had in hi hand ; but in hi broken lingo , the german soon evinc hi complet ignor of the white whale ; immedi turn the convers to hi lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remark touch hi have to turn into hi hammock at night in profound dark -- hi last drop of bremen oil be gone , and not a singl fli - fish yet captur to suppli the defici ; conclud by hint that hi ship wa inde what in the fisheri is technic call a clean one ( that is , an empti one ) , well deserv the name of jungfrau or the virgin . hi necess suppli , derick depart ; but he had not gain hi ship ' s side , when whale were almost simultan rais from the mast - head of both vessel ; and so eager for the chase wa derick , that without paus to put hi oil - can and lamp - feeder aboard , he slew round hi boat and made after the leviathan lamp - feeder . now , the game have risen to leeward , he and the other three german boat that soon follow him , had consider the start of the pequod ' s keel . there were eight whale , an averag pod . awar of their danger , they were go all abreast with great speed straight befor the wind , rub their flank as close as so mani span of hors in har . they left a great , wide wake , as though continu unrol a great wide parchment upon the sea . full in thi rapid wake , and mani fathom in the rear , swam a huge , hump old bull , which by hi compar slow progress , as well as by the unusu yellowish incrust overgrow him , seem afflict with the jaundic , or some other infirm . whether thi whale belong to the pod in advanc , seem question ; for it is not customari for such vener leviathan to be at all social . nevertheless , he stuck to their wake , though inde their back water must have retard him , becaus the white - bone or swell at hi broad muzzl wa a dash one , like the swell form when two hostil current meet . hi spout wa short , slow , and labori ; come forth with a choke sort of gush , and spend itself in torn shred , follow by strang subterranean commot in him , which seem to have egress at hi other buri extrem , caus the water behind him to upbubbl . `` who ' s got some paregor ? '' said stubb , `` he ha the stomach - ach , I ' m afraid . lord , think of have half an acr of stomach - ach ! advers wind are hold mad christma in him , boy . It ' s the first foul wind I ever knew to blow from astern ; but look , did ever whale yaw so befor ? it must be , he ' s lost hi tiller . '' As an overladen indiaman bear down the hindostan coast with a deck load of frighten hors , careen , buri , roll , and wallow on her way ; so did thi old whale heav hi age bulk , and now and then partli turn over on hi cumbrou rib - end , expos the caus of hi deviou wake in the unnatur stump of hi starboard fin . whether he had lost that fin in battl , or had been born without it , it were hard to say . `` onli wait a bit , old chap , and I ' ll give ye a sling for that wound arm , '' cri cruel flask , point to the whale - line near him . `` mind he don ' t sling thee with it , '' cri starbuck . `` give way , or the german will have him . '' with one intent all the combin rival boat were point for thi one fish , becaus not onli wa he the largest , and therefor the most valuabl whale , but he wa nearest to them , and the other whale were go with such great veloc , moreov , as almost to defi pursuit for the time . At thi junctur the pequod ' s keel had shot by the three german boat last lower ; but from the great start he had had , derick ' s boat still led the chase , though everi moment near by hi foreign rival . the onli thing they fear , wa , that from be alreadi so nigh to hi mark , he would be enabl to dart hi iron befor they could complet overtak and pass him . As for derick , he seem quit confid that thi would be the case , and occasion with a derid gestur shook hi lamp - feeder at the other boat . `` the ungraci and ungrat dog ! '' cri starbuck ; `` he mock and dare me with the veri poor - box I fill for him not five minut ago ! '' -- then in hi old intens whisper -- '' give way , greyhound ! dog to it ! '' `` I tell ye what it is , men `` -- cri stubb to hi crew -- '' it ' s against my religion to get mad ; but I ' d like to eat that villain yarman -- pull -- won ' t ye ? are ye go to let that rascal beat ye ? Do ye love brandi ? A hogshead of brandi , then , to the best man . come , whi don ' t some of ye burst a blood - vessel ? who ' s that been drop an anchor overboard -- we don ' t budg an inch -- we ' re becalm . halloo , here ' s grass grow in the boat ' s bottom -- and by the lord , the mast there ' s bud . thi won ' t do , boy . look at that yarman ! the short and long of it is , men , will ye spit fire or not ? '' `` Oh ! see the sud he make ! '' cri flask , danc up and down -- '' what a hump -- Oh , DO pile on the beef -- lay like a log ! Oh ! my lad , DO spring -- slap - jack and quahog for supper , you know , my lad -- bake clam and muffin -- oh , DO , DO , spring , -- he ' s a hundr barrel -- don ' t lose him now -- don ' t oh , don ' T ! -- see that yarman -- Oh , won ' t ye pull for your duff , my lad -- such a sog ! such a sogger ! don ' t ye love sperm ? there goe three thousand dollar , men ! -- a bank ! -- a whole bank ! the bank of england ! -- Oh , DO , DO , DO ! -- what ' s that yarman about now ? '' At thi moment derick wa in the act of pitch hi lamp - feeder at the advanc boat , and also hi oil - can ; perhap with the doubl view of retard hi rival ' way , and at the same time econom acceler hi own by the momentari impetu of the backward toss . `` the unmannerli dutch dogger ! '' cri stubb . `` pull now , men , like fifti thousand line - of - battl - ship load of red - hair devil . what d ' ye say , tashtego ; are you the man to snap your spine in two - and - twenti piec for the honour of old gayhead ? what d ' ye say ? '' `` I say , pull like god - dam , '' -- cri the indian . fierc , but evenli incit by the taunt of the german , the pequod ' s three boat now began rang almost abreast ; and , so dispos , momentarili near him . In that fine , loos , chivalr attitud of the headsman when draw near to hi prey , the three mate stood up proudli , occasion back the after oarsman with an exhilar cri of , `` there she slide , now ! hurrah for the white - ash breez ! down with the yarman ! sail over him ! '' but so decid an origin start had derick had , that spite of all their gallantri , he would have prove the victor in thi race , had not a righteou judgment descend upon him in a crab which caught the blade of hi midship oarsman . while thi clumsi lubber wa strive to free hi white - ash , and while , in consequ , derick ' s boat wa nigh to capsiz , and he thunder away at hi men in a mighti rage ; -- that wa a good time for starbuck , stubb , and flask . with a shout , they took a mortal start forward , and slantingli rang up on the german ' s quarter . An instant more , and all four boat were diagon in the whale ' s immedi wake , while stretch from them , on both side , wa the foam swell that he made . It wa a terrif , most pitiabl , and madden sight . the whale wa now go head out , and send hi spout befor him in a continu torment jet ; while hi one poor fin beat hi side in an agoni of fright . now to thi hand , now to that , he yaw in hi falter flight , and still at everi billow that he broke , he spasmod sank in the sea , or sideway roll toward the sky hi one beat fin . So have I seen a bird with clip wing make affright broken circl in the air , vainli strive to escap the pirat hawk . but the bird ha a voic , and with plaintiv cri will make known her fear ; but the fear of thi vast dumb brute of the sea , wa chain up and enchant in him ; he had no voic , save that choke respir through hi spiracl , and thi made the sight of him unspeak pitiabl ; while still , in hi amaz bulk , portculli jaw , and omnipot tail , there wa enough to appal the stoutest man who so piti . see now that but a veri few moment more would give the pequod ' s boat the advantag , and rather than be thu foil of hi game , derick chose to hazard what to him must have seem a most unusu long dart , ere the last chanc would for ever escap . but no sooner did hi harpoon stand up for the stroke , than all three tiger -- queequeg , tashtego , daggoo -- instinct sprang to their feet , and stand in a diagon row , simultan point their barb ; and dart over the head of the german harpoon , their three nantucket iron enter the whale . blind vapour of foam and white - fire ! the three boat , in the first furi of the whale ' s headlong rush , bump the german ' s asid with such forc , that both derick and hi baffl harpoon were spill out , and sail over by the three fli keel . `` don ' t be afraid , my butter - box , '' cri stubb , cast a pass glanc upon them as he shot by ; `` ye ' ll be pick up present -- all right -- I saw some shark astern -- St . bernard ' s dog , you know -- reliev distress travel . hurrah ! thi is the way to sail now . everi keel a sunbeam ! hurrah ! -- here we go like three tin kettl at the tail of a mad cougar ! thi put me in mind of fasten to an eleph in a tilburi on a plain -- make the wheel - spoke fli , boy , when you fasten to him that way ; and there ' s danger of be pitch out too , when you strike a hill . hurrah ! thi is the way a fellow feel when he ' s go to davi jone -- all a rush down an endless inclin plane ! hurrah ! thi whale carri the everlast mail ! '' but the monster ' s run wa a brief one . give a sudden gasp , he tumultu sound . with a grate rush , the three line flew round the loggerhead with such a forc as to goug deep groov in them ; while so fear were the harpoon that thi rapid sound would soon exhaust the line , that use all their dexter might , they caught repeat smoke turn with the rope to hold on ; till at last -- owe to the perpendicular strain from the lead - line chock of the boat , whenc the three rope went straight down into the blue -- the gunwal of the bow were almost even with the water , while the three stern tilt high in the air . and the whale soon ceas to sound , for some time they remain in that attitud , fear of expend more line , though the posit wa a littl ticklish . but though boat have been taken down and lost in thi way , yet it is thi `` hold on , '' as it is call ; thi hook up by the sharp barb of hi live flesh from the back ; thi it is that often torment the leviathan into soon rise again to meet the sharp lanc of hi foe . yet not to speak of the peril of the thing , it is to be doubt whether thi cours is alway the best ; for it is but reason to presum , that the longer the stricken whale stay under water , the more he is exhaust . becaus , owe to the enorm surfac of him -- in a full grown sperm whale someth less than 2000 squar feet -- the pressur of the water is immens . We all know what an astonish atmospher weight we ourselv stand up under ; even here , abov - ground , in the air ; how vast , then , the burden of a whale , bear on hi back a column of two hundr fathom of ocean ! It must at least equal the weight of fifti atmospher . one whaleman ha estim it at the weight of twenti line - of - battl ship , with all their gun , and store , and men on board . As the three boat lay there on that gentli roll sea , gaze down into it etern blue noon ; and as not a singl groan or cri of ani sort , nay , not so much as a rippl or a bubbl came up from it depth ; what landsman would have thought , that beneath all that silenc and placid , the utmost monster of the sea wa writh and wrench in agoni ! not eight inch of perpendicular rope were visibl at the bow . seem it credibl that by three such thin thread the great leviathan wa suspend like the big weight to an eight day clock . suspend ? and to what ? To three bit of board . Is thi the creatur of whom it wa onc so triumphantli said -- '' canst thou fill hi skin with barb iron ? or hi head with fish - spear ? the sword of him that layeth at him can not hold , the spear , the dart , nor the habergeon : he esteemeth iron as straw ; the arrow can not make him flee ; dart are count as stubbl ; he laugheth at the shake of a spear ! '' thi the creatur ? thi he ? Oh ! that unfulfil should follow the prophet . for with the strength of a thousand thigh in hi tail , leviathan had run hi head under the mountain of the sea , to hide him from the pequod ' s fish - spear ! In that slope afternoon sunlight , the shadow that the three boat sent down beneath the surfac , must have been long enough and broad enough to shade half xerx ' armi . who can tell how appal to the wound whale must have been such huge phantom flit over hi head ! `` stand by , men ; he stir , '' cri starbuck , as the three line suddenli vibrat in the water , distinctli conduct upward to them , as by magnet wire , the life and death throb of the whale , so that everi oarsman felt them in hi seat . the next moment , reliev in great part from the downward strain at the bow , the boat gave a sudden bounc upward , as a small icefield will , when a dens herd of white bear are scare from it into the sea . `` haul in ! haul in ! '' cri starbuck again ; `` he ' s rise . '' the line , of which , hardli an instant befor , not one hand ' s breadth could have been gain , were now in long quick coil flung back all drip into the boat , and soon the whale broke water within two ship ' s length of the hunter . hi motion plainli denot hi extrem exhaust . In most land anim there are certain valv or flood - gate in mani of their vein , wherebi when wound , the blood is in some degre at least instantli shut off in certain direct . not so with the whale ; one of whose peculiar it is to have an entir non - valvular structur of the blood - vessel , so that when pierc even by so small a point as a harpoon , a deadli drain is at onc begun upon hi whole arteri system ; and when thi is heighten by the extraordinari pressur of water at a great distanc below the surfac , hi life may be said to pour from him in incess stream . yet so vast is the quantiti of blood in him , and so distant and numer it interior fountain , that he will keep thu bleed and bleed for a consider period ; even as in a drought a river will flow , whose sourc is in the well - spring of far - off and undiscern hill . even now , when the boat pull upon thi whale , and peril drew over hi sway fluke , and the lanc were dart into him , they were follow by steadi jet from the new made wound , which kept continu play , while the natur spout - hole in hi head wa onli at interv , howev rapid , send it affright moistur into the air . from thi last vent no blood yet came , becaus no vital part of him had thu far been struck . hi life , as they significantli call it , wa untouch . As the boat now more close surround him , the whole upper part of hi form , with much of it that is ordinarili submerg , wa plainli reveal . hi eye , or rather the place where hi eye had been , were beheld . As strang misgrown mass gather in the knot - hole of the noblest oak when prostrat , so from the point which the whale ' s eye had onc occupi , now protrud blind bulb , horribl pitiabl to see . but piti there wa none . for all hi old age , and hi one arm , and hi blind eye , he must die the death and be murder , in order to light the gay bridal and other merri - make of men , and also to illumin the solemn church that preach uncondit inoffens by all to all . still roll in hi blood , at last he partial disclos a strang discolour bunch or protuber , the size of a bushel , low down on the flank . `` A nice spot , '' cri flask ; `` just let me prick him there onc . '' `` avast ! '' cri starbuck , `` there ' s no need of that ! '' but human starbuck wa too late . At the instant of the dart an ulcer jet shot from thi cruel wound , and goad by it into more than suffer anguish , the whale now spout thick blood , with swift furi blindli dart at the craft , bespatt them and their glori crew all over with shower of gore , capsiz flask ' s boat and mar the bow . It wa hi death stroke . for , by thi time , so spent wa he by loss of blood , that he helplessli roll away from the wreck he had made ; lay pant on hi side , impot flap with hi stump fin , then over and over slowli revolv like a wane world ; turn up the white secret of hi belli ; lay like a log , and die . It wa most piteou , that last expir spout . As when by unseen hand the water is gradual drawn off from some mighti fountain , and with half - stifl melancholi gurgl the spray - column lower and lower to the ground -- so the last long die spout of the whale . soon , while the crew were await the arriv of the ship , the bodi show symptom of sink with all it treasur unrifl . immedi , by starbuck ' s order , line were secur to it at differ point , so that ere long everi boat wa a buoy ; the sunken whale be suspend a few inch beneath them by the cord . By veri heed manag , when the ship drew nigh , the whale wa transfer to her side , and wa strongli secur there by the stiffest fluke - chain , for it wa plain that unless artifici upheld , the bodi would at onc sink to the bottom . It so chanc that almost upon first cut into him with the spade , the entir length of a corrod harpoon wa found imbed in hi flesh , on the lower part of the bunch befor describ . but as the stump of harpoon are frequent found in the dead bodi of captur whale , with the flesh perfectli heal around them , and no promin of ani kind to denot their place ; therefor , there must need have been some other unknown reason in the present case fulli to account for the ulcer allud to . but still more curiou wa the fact of a lanc - head of stone be found in him , not far from the buri iron , the flesh perfectli firm about it . who had dart that stone lanc ? and when ? It might have been dart by some nor ' west indian long befor america wa discov . what other marvel might have been rummag out of thi monstrou cabinet there is no tell . but a sudden stop wa put to further discoveri , by the ship ' s be unprecedentedli drag over sideway to the sea , owe to the bodi ' s immens increas tendenc to sink . howev , starbuck , who had the order of affair , hung on to it to the last ; hung on to it so resolut , inde , that when at length the ship would have been capsiz , if still persist in lock arm with the bodi ; then , when the command wa given to break clear from it , such wa the immov strain upon the timber - head to which the fluke - chain and cabl were fasten , that it wa imposs to cast them off . meantim everyth in the pequod wa aslant . To cross to the other side of the deck wa like walk up the steep gabl roof of a hous . the ship groan and gasp . mani of the ivori inlay of her bulwark and cabin were start from their place , by the unnatur disloc . In vain handspik and crow were brought to bear upon the immov fluke - chain , to pri them adrift from the timberhead ; and so low had the whale now settl that the submerg end could not be at all approach , while everi moment whole ton of ponderos seem ad to the sink bulk , and the ship seem on the point of go over . `` hold on , hold on , won ' t ye ? '' cri stubb to the bodi , `` don ' t be in such a devil of a hurri to sink ! By thunder , men , we must do someth or go for it . No use pri there ; avast , I say with your handspik , and run one of ye for a prayer book and a pen - knife , and cut the big chain . '' `` knife ? aye , aye , '' cri queequeg , and seiz the carpent ' s heavi hatchet , he lean out of a porthol , and steel to iron , began slash at the largest fluke - chain . but a few stroke , full of spark , were given , when the exceed strain effect the rest . with a terrif snap , everi fasten went adrift ; the ship right , the carcas sank . now , thi occasion inevit sink of the recent kill sperm whale is a veri curiou thing ; nor ha ani fisherman yet adequ account for it . usual the dead sperm whale float with great buoyanc , with it side or belli consider elev abov the surfac . If the onli whale that thu sank were old , meagr , and broken - heart creatur , their pad of lard diminish and all their bone heavi and rheumat ; then you might with some reason assert that thi sink is caus by an uncommon specif graviti in the fish so sink , consequ upon thi absenc of buoyant matter in him . but it is not so . for young whale , in the highest health , and swell with nobl aspir , prematur cut off in the warm flush and may of life , with all their pant lard about them ; even these brawni , buoyant hero do sometim sink . Be it said , howev , that the sperm whale is far less liabl to thi accid than ani other speci . where one of that sort go down , twenti right whale do . thi differ in the speci is no doubt imput in no small degre to the greater quantiti of bone in the right whale ; hi venetian blind alon sometim weigh more than a ton ; from thi incumbr the sperm whale is wholli free . but there are instanc where , after the laps of mani hour or sever day , the sunken whale again rise , more buoyant than in life . but the reason of thi is obviou . gase are gener in him ; he swell to a prodigi magnitud ; becom a sort of anim balloon . A line - of - battl ship could hardli keep him under then . In the shore whale , on sound , among the bay of new zealand , when a right whale give token of sink , they fasten buoy to him , with plenti of rope ; so that when the bodi ha gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascend again . It wa not long after the sink of the bodi that a cri wa heard from the pequod ' s mast - head , announc that the jungfrau wa again lower her boat ; though the onli spout in sight wa that of a fin - back , belong to the speci of uncaptur whale , becaus of it incred power of swim . nevertheless , the fin - back ' s spout is so similar to the sperm whale ' s , that by unskil fishermen it is often mistaken for it . and consequ derick and all hi host were now in valiant chase of thi unnear brute . the virgin crowd all sail , made after her four young keel , and thu they all disappear far to leeward , still in bold , hope chase . Oh ! mani are the fin - back , and mani are the derick , my friend . chapter 82 the honour and glori of whale . there are some enterpris in which a care disorderli is the true method . the more I dive into thi matter of whale , and push my research up to the veri spring - head of it so much the more am I impress with it great honour and antiqu ; and especi when I find so mani great demi - god and hero , prophet of all sort , who one way or other have shed distinct upon it , I am transport with the reflect that I myself belong , though but subordin , to so emblazon a fratern . the gallant perseu , a son of jupit , wa the first whaleman ; and to the etern honour of our call be it said , that the first whale attack by our brotherhood wa not kill with ani sordid intent . those were the knightli day of our profess , when we onli bore arm to succor the distress , and not to fill men ' s lamp - feeder . everi one know the fine stori of perseu and andromeda ; how the love andromeda , the daughter of a king , wa tie to a rock on the sea - coast , and as leviathan wa in the veri act of carri her off , perseu , the princ of whalemen , intrepidli advanc , harpoon the monster , and deliv and marri the maid . It wa an admir artist exploit , rare achiev by the best harpoon of the present day ; inasmuch as thi leviathan wa slain at the veri first dart . and let no man doubt thi arkit stori ; for in the ancient joppa , now jaffa , on the syrian coast , in one of the pagan templ , there stood for mani age the vast skeleton of a whale , which the citi ' s legend and all the inhabit assert to be the ident bone of the monster that perseu slew . when the roman took joppa , the same skeleton wa carri to itali in triumph . what seem most singular and suggest import in thi stori , is thi : it wa from joppa that jonah set sail . akin to the adventur of perseu and andromeda -- inde , by some suppos to be indirectli deriv from it -- is that famou stori of St . georg and the dragon ; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale ; for in mani old chronicl whale and dragon are strang jumbl togeth , and often stand for each other . `` thou art as a lion of the water , and as a dragon of the sea , '' saith ezekiel ; herebi , plainli mean a whale ; in truth , some version of the bibl use that word itself . besid , it would much subtract from the glori of the exploit had St . georg but encount a crawl reptil of the land , instead of do battl with the great monster of the deep . ani man may kill a snake , but onli a perseu , a St . georg , a coffin , have the heart in them to march boldli up to a whale . let not the modern paint of thi scene mislead us ; for though the creatur encount by that valiant whaleman of old is vagu repres of a griffin - like shape , and though the battl is depict on land and the saint on horseback , yet consid the great ignor of those time , when the true form of the whale wa unknown to artist ; and consid that as in perseu ' case , St . georg ' s whale might have crawl up out of the sea on the beach ; and consid that the anim ridden by St . georg might have been onli a larg seal , or sea - hors ; bear all thi in mind , it will not appear altogeth incompat with the sacr legend and the ancientest draught of the scene , to hold thi so - call dragon no other than the great leviathan himself . In fact , place befor the strict and pierc truth , thi whole stori will fare like that fish , flesh , and fowl idol of the philistin , dagon by name ; who be plant befor the ark of israel , hi hors ' s head and both the palm of hi hand fell off from him , and onli the stump or fishi part of him remain . thu , then , one of our own nobl stamp , even a whaleman , is the tutelari guardian of england ; and by good right , we harpoon of nantucket should be enrol in the most nobl order of St . georg . and therefor , let not the knight of that honour compani ( none of whom , I ventur to say , have ever had to do with a whale like their great patron ) , let them never eye a nantucket with disdain , sinc even in our woollen frock and tar trowser we are much better entitl to St . georg ' s decor than they . whether to admit hercul among us or not , concern thi I long remain dubiou : for though accord to the greek mytholog , that antiqu crockett and kit carson -- that brawni doer of rejoic good deed , wa swallow down and thrown up by a whale ; still , whether that strictli make a whaleman of him , that might be moot . It nowher appear that he ever actual harpoon hi fish , unless , inde , from the insid . nevertheless , he may be deem a sort of involuntari whaleman ; at ani rate the whale caught him , if he did not the whale . I claim him for one of our clan . but , by the best contradictori author , thi grecian stori of hercul and the whale is consid to be deriv from the still more ancient hebrew stori of jonah and the whale ; and vice versa ; certainli they are veri similar . If I claim the demigod then , whi not the prophet ? nor do hero , saint , demigod , and prophet alon compris the whole roll of our order . our grand master is still to be name ; for like royal king of old time , we find the head water of our fratern in noth short of the great god themselv . that wondrou orient stori is now to be rehears from the shaster , which give us the dread vishnoo , one of the three person in the godhead of the hindoo ; give us thi divin vishnoo himself for our lord ; -- vishnoo , who , by the first of hi ten earthli incarn , ha for ever set apart and sanctifi the whale . when brahma , or the god of god , saith the shaster , resolv to recreat the world after one of it period dissolut , he gave birth to vishnoo , to presid over the work ; but the veda , or mystic book , whose perus would seem to have been indispens to vishnoo befor begin the creation , and which therefor must have contain someth in the shape of practic hint to young architect , these veda were lie at the bottom of the water ; so vishnoo becam incarn in a whale , and sound down in him to the uttermost depth , rescu the sacr volum . wa not thi vishnoo a whaleman , then ? even as a man who ride a hors is call a horseman ? perseu , St . georg , hercul , jonah , and vishnoo ! there ' s a member - roll for you ! what club but the whaleman ' s can head off like that ? chapter 83 jonah histor regard . refer wa made to the histor stori of jonah and the whale in the preced chapter . now some nantucket rather distrust thi histor stori of jonah and the whale . but then there were some sceptic greek and roman , who , stand out from the orthodox pagan of their time , equal doubt the stori of hercul and the whale , and arion and the dolphin ; and yet their doubt those tradit did not make those tradit one whit the less fact , for all that . one old sag - harbor whaleman ' s chief reason for question the hebrew stori wa thi : -- He had one of those quaint old - fashion bibl , embellish with curiou , unscientif plate ; one of which repres jonah ' s whale with two spout in hi head -- a peculiar onli true with respect to a speci of the leviathan ( the right whale , and the varieti of that order ) , concern which the fishermen have thi say , `` A penni roll would choke him `` ; hi swallow is so veri small . but , to thi , bishop jebb ' s anticip answer is readi . It is not necessari , hint the bishop , that we consid jonah as tomb in the whale ' s belli , but as temporarili lodg in some part of hi mouth . and thi seem reason enough in the good bishop . for truli , the right whale ' s mouth would accommod a coupl of whist - tabl , and comfort seat all the player . possibl , too , jonah might have ensconc himself in a hollow tooth ; but , on second thought , the right whale is toothless . anoth reason which sag - harbor ( he went by that name ) urg for hi want of faith in thi matter of the prophet , wa someth obscur in refer to hi incarcer bodi and the whale ' s gastric juic . but thi object likewis fall to the ground , becaus a german exegetist suppos that jonah must have taken refug in the float bodi of a dead whale -- even as the french soldier in the russian campaign turn their dead hors into tent , and crawl into them . besid , it ha been divin by other continent comment , that when jonah wa thrown overboard from the joppa ship , he straightway effect hi escap to anoth vessel near by , some vessel with a whale for a figur - head ; and , I would add , possibl call `` the whale , '' as some craft are nowaday christen the `` shark , '' the `` gull , '' the `` eagl . '' nor have there been want learn exegetist who have opin that the whale mention in the book of jonah mere meant a life - preserv -- an inflat bag of wind -- which the endang prophet swam to , and so wa save from a wateri doom . poor sag - harbor , therefor , seem worst all round . but he had still anoth reason for hi want of faith . It wa thi , if I rememb right : jonah wa swallow by the whale in the mediterranean sea , and after three day he wa vomit up somewher within three day ' journey of nineveh , a citi on the tigri , veri much more than three day ' journey across from the nearest point of the mediterranean coast . how is that ? but wa there no other way for the whale to land the prophet within that short distanc of nineveh ? ye . He might have carri him round by the way of the cape of good hope . but not to speak of the passag through the whole length of the mediterranean , and anoth passag up the persian gulf and red sea , such a supposit would involv the complet circumnavig of all africa in three day , not to speak of the tigri water , near the site of nineveh , be too shallow for ani whale to swim in . besid , thi idea of jonah ' s weather the cape of good hope at so earli a day would wrest the honour of the discoveri of that great headland from bartholomew diaz , it reput discover , and so make modern histori a liar . but all these foolish argument of old sag - harbor onli evinc hi foolish pride of reason -- a thing still more reprehens in him , see that he had but littl learn except what he had pick up from the sun and the sea . I say it onli show hi foolish , impiou pride , and abomin , devilish rebellion against the reverend clergi . for by a portugues cathol priest , thi veri idea of jonah ' s go to nineveh via the cape of good hope wa advanc as a signal magnif of the gener miracl . and so it wa . besid , to thi day , the highli enlighten turk devoutli believ in the histor stori of jonah . and some three centuri ago , an english travel in old harri ' s voyag , speak of a turkish mosqu built in honour of jonah , in which mosqu wa a miracul lamp that burnt without ani oil . chapter 84 pitchpol . To make them run easili and swiftli , the axl of carriag are anoint ; and for much the same purpos , some whaler perform an analog oper upon their boat ; they greas the bottom . nor is it to be doubt that as such a procedur can do no harm , it may possibl be of no contempt advantag ; consid that oil and water are hostil ; that oil is a slide thing , and that the object in view is to make the boat slide brave . queequeg believ strongli in anoint hi boat , and one morn not long after the german ship jungfrau disappear , took more than customari pain in that occup ; crawl under it bottom , where it hung over the side , and rub in the unctuous as though dilig seek to insur a crop of hair from the craft ' s bald keel . He seem to be work in obedi to some particular presenti . nor did it remain unwarr by the event . toward noon whale were rais ; but so soon as the ship sail down to them , they turn and fled with swift precipit ; a disord flight , as of cleopatra ' s barg from actium . nevertheless , the boat pursu , and stubb ' s wa foremost . By great exert , tashtego at last succeed in plant one iron ; but the stricken whale , without at all sound , still continu hi horizont flight , with ad fleet . such unintermit strain upon the plant iron must sooner or later inevit extract it . It becam imper to lanc the fli whale , or be content to lose him . but to haul the boat up to hi flank wa imposs , he swam so fast and furiou . what then remain ? Of all the wondrou devic and dexter , the sleight of hand and countless subtleti , to which the veteran whaleman is so often forc , none exceed that fine manoeuvr with the lanc call pitchpol . small sword , or broad sword , in all it exercis boast noth like it . It is onli indispens with an inveter run whale ; it grand fact and featur is the wonder distanc to which the long lanc is accur dart from a violent rock , jerk boat , under extrem headway . steel and wood includ , the entir spear is some ten or twelv feet in length ; the staff is much slighter than that of the harpoon , and also of a lighter materi -- pine . It is furnish with a small rope call a warp , of consider length , by which it can be haul back to the hand after dart . but befor go further , it is import to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpol in the same way with the lanc , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequent success , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compar with the lanc , which in effect becom seriou drawback . As a gener thing , therefor , you must first get fast to a whale , befor ani pitchpol come into play . look now at stubb ; a man who from hi humor , deliber cool and equanim in the direst emerg , wa special qualifi to excel in pitchpol . look at him ; he stand upright in the toss bow of the fli boat ; wrapt in fleeci foam , the tow whale is forti feet ahead . handl the long lanc lightli , glanc twice or thrice along it length to see if it be exactli straight , stubb whistlingli gather up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secur it free end in hi grasp , leav the rest unobstruct . then hold the lanc full befor hi waistband ' s middl , he level it at the whale ; when , cover him with it , he steadili depress the butt - end in hi hand , therebi elev the point till the weapon stand fairli balanc upon hi palm , fifteen feet in the air . He mind you somewhat of a juggler , balanc a long staff on hi chin . next moment with a rapid , nameless impuls , in a superb lofti arch the bright steel span the foam distanc , and quiver in the life spot of the whale . instead of sparkl water , he now spout red blood . `` that drove the spigot out of him ! '' cri stubb . `` ' ti juli ' s immort fourth ; all fountain must run wine today ! would now , it were old orlean whiskey , or old ohio , or unspeak old monongahela ! then , tashtego , lad , I ' d have ye hold a canakin to the jet , and we ' d drink round it ! yea , verili , heart aliv , we ' d brew choic punch in the spread of hi spout - hole there , and from that live punch - bowl quaff the live stuff . '' again and again to such gamesom talk , the dexter dart is repeat , the spear return to it master like a greyhound held in skil leash . the agon whale goe into hi flurri ; the tow - line is slacken , and the pitchpol drop astern , fold hi hand , and mute watch the monster die . chapter 85 the fountain . that for six thousand year -- and no one know how mani million of age befor -- the great whale should have been spout all over the sea , and sprinkl and mistifi the garden of the deep , as with so mani sprinkl or mistifi pot ; and that for some centuri back , thousand of hunter should have been close by the fountain of the whale , watch these sprinkl and spout -- that all thi should be , and yet , that down to thi bless minut ( fifteen and a quarter minut past one o ' clock P . M . of thi sixteenth day of decemb , A . D . 1851 ) , it should still remain a problem , whether these spout are , after all , realli water , or noth but vapour -- thi is sure a noteworthi thing . let us , then , look at thi matter , along with some interest item conting . everi one know that by the peculiar cun of their gill , the finni tribe in gener breath the air which at all time is combin with the element in which they swim ; henc , a her or a cod might live a centuri , and never onc rais it head abov the surfac . but owe to hi mark intern structur which give him regular lung , like a human be ' s , the whale can onli live by inhal the disengag air in the open atmospher . wherefor the necess for hi period visit to the upper world . but he can not in ani degre breath through hi mouth , for , in hi ordinari attitud , the sperm whale ' s mouth is buri at least eight feet beneath the surfac ; and what is still more , hi windpip ha no connexion with hi mouth . No , he breath through hi spiracl alon ; and thi is on the top of hi head . If I say , that in ani creatur breath is onli a function indispens to vital , inasmuch as it withdraw from the air a certain element , which be subsequ brought into contact with the blood impart to the blood it vivifi principl , I do not think I shall err ; though I may possibl use some superflu scientif word . assum it , and it follow that if all the blood in a man could be aerat with one breath , he might then seal up hi nostril and not fetch anoth for a consider time . that is to say , he would then live without breath . anomal as it may seem , thi is precis the case with the whale , who systemat live , by interv , hi full hour and more ( when at the bottom ) without draw a singl breath , or so much as in ani way inhal a particl of air ; for , rememb , he ha no gill . how is thi ? between hi rib and on each side of hi spine he is suppli with a remark involv cretan labyrinth of vermicelli - like vessel , which vessel , when he quit the surfac , are complet distend with oxygen blood . So that for an hour or more , a thousand fathom in the sea , he carri a surplu stock of vital in him , just as the camel cross the waterless desert carri a surplu suppli of drink for futur use in it four supplementari stomach . the anatom fact of thi labyrinth is indisput ; and that the supposit found upon it is reason and true , seem the more cogent to me , when I consid the otherwis inexplic obstinaci of that leviathan in have hi spout out , as the fishermen phrase it . thi is what I mean . If unmolest , upon rise to the surfac , the sperm whale will continu there for a period of time exactli uniform with all hi other unmolest rise . say he stay eleven minut , and jet seventi time , that is , respir seventi breath ; then whenev he rise again , he will be sure to have hi seventi breath over again , to a minut . now , if after he fetch a few breath you alarm him , so that he sound , he will be alway dodg up again to make good hi regular allow of air . and not till those seventi breath are told , will he final go down to stay out hi full term below . remark , howev , that in differ individu these rate are differ ; but in ani one they are alik . now , whi should the whale thu insist upon have hi spout out , unless it be to replenish hi reservoir of air , ere descend for good ? how obviou is it , too , that thi necess for the whale ' s rise expos him to all the fatal hazard of the chase . for not by hook or by net could thi vast leviathan be caught , when sail a thousand fathom beneath the sunlight . not so much thi skill , then , O hunter , as the great necess that strike the victori to thee ! In man , breath is incessantli go on -- one breath onli serv for two or three pulsat ; so that whatev other busi he ha to attend to , wake or sleep , breath he must , or die he will . but the sperm whale onli breath about one seventh or sunday of hi time . It ha been said that the whale onli breath through hi spout - hole ; if it could truth be ad that hi spout are mix with water , then I opin we should be furnish with the reason whi hi sens of smell seem obliter in him ; for the onli thing about him that at all answer to hi nose is that ident spout - hole ; and be so clog with two element , it could not be expect to have the power of smell . but owe to the mysteri of the spout -- whether it be water or whether it be vapour -- no absolut certainti can as yet be arriv at on thi head . sure it is , nevertheless , that the sperm whale ha no proper olfactori . but what doe he want of them ? No rose , no violet , no cologn - water in the sea . furthermor , as hi windpip sole open into the tube of hi spout canal , and as that long canal -- like the grand eri canal -- is furnish with a sort of lock ( that open and shut ) for the downward retent of air or the upward exclus of water , therefor the whale ha no voic ; unless you insult him by say , that when he so strang rumbl , he talk through hi nose . but then again , what ha the whale to say ? seldom have I known ani profound be that had anyth to say to thi world , unless forc to stammer out someth by way of get a live . Oh ! happi that the world is such an excel listen ! now , the spout canal of the sperm whale , chiefli intend as it is for the convey of air , and for sever feet laid along , horizont , just beneath the upper surfac of hi head , and a littl to one side ; thi curiou canal is veri much like a ga - pipe laid down in a citi on one side of a street . but the question return whether thi ga - pipe is also a water - pipe ; in other word , whether the spout of the sperm whale is the mere vapour of the exhal breath , or whether that exhal breath is mix with water taken in at the mouth , and discharg through the spiracl . It is certain that the mouth indirectli commun with the spout canal ; but it can not be prove that thi is for the purpos of discharg water through the spiracl . becaus the greatest necess for so do would seem to be , when in feed he accident take in water . but the sperm whale ' s food is far beneath the surfac , and there he can not spout even if he would . besid , if you regard him veri close , and time him with your watch , you will find that when unmolest , there is an undevi rhyme between the period of hi jet and the ordinari period of respir . but whi pester one with all thi reason on the subject ? speak out ! you have seen him spout ; then declar what the spout is ; can you not tell water from air ? My dear sir , in thi world it is not so easi to settl these plain thing . I have ever found your plain thing the knottiest of all . and as for thi whale spout , you might almost stand in it , and yet be undecid as to what it is precis . the central bodi of it is hidden in the snowi sparkl mist envelop it ; and how can you certainli tell whether ani water fall from it , when , alway , when you are close enough to a whale to get a close view of hi spout , he is in a prodigi commot , the water cascad all around him . and if at such time you should think that you realli perceiv drop of moistur in the spout , how do you know that they are not mere condens from it vapour ; or how do you know that they are not those ident drop superfici lodg in the spout - hole fissur , which is countersunk into the summit of the whale ' s head ? for even when tranquilli swim through the mid - day sea in a calm , with hi elev hump sun - dri as a dromedari ' s in the desert ; even then , the whale alway carri a small basin of water on hi head , as under a blaze sun you will sometim see a caviti in a rock fill up with rain . nor is it at all prudent for the hunter to be over curiou touch the precis natur of the whale spout . It will not do for him to be peer into it , and put hi face in it . you can not go with your pitcher to thi fountain and fill it , and bring it away . for even when come into slight contact with the outer , vapouri shred of the jet , which will often happen , your skin will feverishli smart , from the acrid of the thing so touch it . and I know one , who come into still closer contact with the spout , whether with some scientif object in view , or otherwis , I can not say , the skin peel off from hi cheek and arm . wherefor , among whalemen , the spout is deem poison ; they tri to evad it . anoth thing ; I have heard it said , and I do not much doubt it , that if the jet is fairli spout into your eye , it will blind you . the wisest thing the investig can do then , it seem to me , is to let thi deadli spout alon . still , we can hypothes , even if we can not prove and establish . My hypothesi is thi : that the spout is noth but mist . and besid other reason , to thi conclus I am impel , by consider touch the great inher digniti and sublim of the sperm whale ; I account him no common , shallow be , inasmuch as it is an undisput fact that he is never found on sound , or near shore ; all other whale sometim are . He is both ponder and profound . and I am convinc that from the head of all ponder profound be , such as plato , pyrrho , the devil , jupit , dant , and so on , there alway goe up a certain semi - visibl steam , while in the act of think deep thought . while compos a littl treatis on etern , I had the curios to place a mirror befor me ; and ere long saw reflect there , a curiou involv worm and undul in the atmospher over my head . the invari moistur of my hair , while plung in deep thought , after six cup of hot tea in my thin shingl attic , of an august noon ; thi seem an addit argument for the abov supposit . and how nobli it rais our conceit of the mighti , misti monster , to behold him solemnli sail through a calm tropic sea ; hi vast , mild head overhung by a canopi of vapour , engend by hi incommunic contempl , and that vapour -- as you will sometim see it -- glorifi by a rainbow , as if heaven itself had put it seal upon hi thought . for , d ' ye see , rainbow do not visit the clear air ; they onli irradi vapour . and so , through all the thick mist of the dim doubt in my mind , divin intuit now and then shoot , enkindl my fog with a heavenli ray . and for thi I thank god ; for all have doubt ; mani deni ; but doubt or denial , few along with them , have intuit . doubt of all thing earthli , and intuit of some thing heavenli ; thi combin make neither believ nor infidel , but make a man who regard them both with equal eye . chapter 86 the tail . other poet have warbl the prais of the soft eye of the antelop , and the love plumag of the bird that never alight ; less celesti , I celebr a tail . reckon the largest size sperm whale ' s tail to begin at that point of the trunk where it taper to about the girth of a man , it compris upon it upper surfac alon , an area of at least fifti squar feet . the compact round bodi of it root expand into two broad , firm , flat palm or fluke , gradual shoal away to less than an inch in thick . At the crotch or junction , these fluke slightli overlap , then sideway reced from each other like wing , leav a wide vacanc between . In no live thing are the line of beauti more exquisit defin than in the crescent border of these fluke . At it utmost expans in the full grown whale , the tail will consider exceed twenti feet across . the entir member seem a dens web bed of weld sinew ; but cut into it , and you find that three distinct strata compos it : -- upper , middl , and lower . the fibr in the upper and lower layer , are long and horizont ; those of the middl one , veri short , and run crosswis between the outsid layer . thi triun structur , as much as anyth els , impart power to the tail . To the student of old roman wall , the middl layer will furnish a curiou parallel to the thin cours of tile alway altern with the stone in those wonder relic of the antiqu , and which undoubtedli contribut so much to the great strength of the masonri . but as if thi vast local power in the tendin tail were not enough , the whole bulk of the leviathan is knit over with a warp and woof of muscular fibr and filament , which pass on either side the loin and run down into the fluke , insens blend with them , and larg contribut to their might ; so that in the tail the confluent measureless forc of the whole whale seem concentr to a point . could annihil occur to matter , thi were the thing to do it . nor doe thi -- it amaz strength , at all tend to crippl the grace flexion of it motion ; where infantil of eas undul through a titan of power . On the contrari , those motion deriv their most appal beauti from it . real strength never impair beauti or harmoni , but it often bestow it ; and in everyth imposingli beauti , strength ha much to do with the magic . take away the tie tendon that all over seem burst from the marbl in the carv hercul , and it charm would be gone . As devout eckerman lift the linen sheet from the nake corps of goeth , he wa overwhelm with the massiv chest of the man , that seem as a roman triumphal arch . when angelo paint even god the father in human form , mark what robust is there . and whatev they may reveal of the divin love in the son , the soft , curl , hermaphrodit italian pictur , in which hi idea ha been most success embodi ; these pictur , so destitut as they are of all brawni , hint noth of ani power , but the mere neg , feminin one of submiss and endur , which on all hand it is conced , form the peculiar practic virtu of hi teach . such is the subtl elast of the organ I treat of , that whether wield in sport , or in earnest , or in anger , whatev be the mood it be in , it flexion are invari mark by exceed grace . therein no fairi ' s arm can transcend it . five great motion are peculiar to it . first , when use as a fin for progress ; second , when use as a mace in battl ; third , in sweep ; fourth , in lobtail ; fifth , in peak fluke . first : be horizont in it posit , the leviathan ' s tail act in a differ manner from the tail of all other sea creatur . It never wriggl . In man or fish , wriggl is a sign of inferior . To the whale , hi tail is the sole mean of propuls . scroll - wise coil forward beneath the bodi , and then rapidli sprung backward , it is thi which give that singular dart , leap motion to the monster when furious swim . hi side - fin onli serv to steer by . second : It is a littl signific , that while one sperm whale onli fight anoth sperm whale with hi head and jaw , nevertheless , in hi conflict with man , he chiefli and contemptu use hi tail . In strike at a boat , he swiftli curv away hi fluke from it , and the blow is onli inflict by the recoil . If it be made in the unobstruct air , especi if it descend to it mark , the stroke is then simpli irresist . No rib of man or boat can withstand it . your onli salvat lie in elud it ; but if it come sideway through the oppos water , then partli owe to the light buoyanc of the whale boat , and the elast of it materi , a crack rib or a dash plank or two , a sort of stitch in the side , is gener the most seriou result . these submerg side blow are so often receiv in the fisheri , that they are account mere child ' s play . some one strip off a frock , and the hole is stop . third : I can not demonstr it , but it seem to me , that in the whale the sens of touch is concentr in the tail ; for in thi respect there is a delicaci in it onli equal by the dainti of the eleph ' s trunk . thi delicaci is chiefli evinc in the action of sweep , when in maidenli gentl the whale with a certain soft slow move hi immens fluke from side to side upon the surfac of the sea ; and if he feel but a sailor ' s whisker , woe to that sailor , whisker and all . what tender there is in that preliminari touch ! had thi tail ani prehensil power , I should straightway bethink me of darmonod ' eleph that so frequent the flower - market , and with low salut present nosegay to damsel , and then caress their zone . On more account than one , a piti it is that the whale doe not possess thi prehensil virtu in hi tail ; for I have heard of yet anoth eleph , that when wound in the fight , curv round hi trunk and extract the dart . fourth : steal unawar upon the whale in the fanci secur of the middl of solitari sea , you find him unbent from the vast corpul of hi digniti , and kitten - like , he play on the ocean as if it were a hearth . but still you see hi power in hi play . the broad palm of hi tail are flirt high into the air ; then smite the surfac , the thunder concuss resound for mile . you would almost think a great gun had been discharg ; and if you notic the light wreath of vapour from the spiracl at hi other extrem , you would think that that wa the smoke from the touch - hole . fifth : As in the ordinari float postur of the leviathan the fluke lie consider below the level of hi back , they are then complet out of sight beneath the surfac ; but when he is about to plung into the deep , hi entir fluke with at least thirti feet of hi bodi are toss erect in the air , and so remain vibrat a moment , till they downward shoot out of view . except the sublim breach -- somewher els to be describ -- thi peak of the whale ' s fluke is perhap the grandest sight to be seen in all anim natur . out of the bottomless profund the gigant tail seem spasmod snatch at the highest heaven . So in dream , have I seen majest satan thrust forth hi torment coloss claw from the flame baltic of hell . but in gaze at such scene , it is all in all what mood you are in ; if in the dantean , the devil will occur to you ; if in that of isaiah , the archangel . stand at the mast - head of my ship dure a sunris that crimson sky and sea , I onc saw a larg herd of whale in the east , all head toward the sun , and for a moment vibrat in concert with peak fluke . As it seem to me at the time , such a grand embodi of ador of the god wa never beheld , even in persia , the home of the fire worshipp . As ptolemi philopat testifi of the african eleph , I then testifi of the whale , pronounc him the most devout of all be . for accord to king juba , the militari eleph of antiqu often hail the morn with their trunk uplift in the profoundest silenc . the chanc comparison in thi chapter , between the whale and the eleph , so far as some aspect of the tail of the one and the trunk of the other are concern , should not tend to place those two opposit organ on an equal , much less the creatur to which they respect belong . for as the mightiest eleph is but a terrier to leviathan , so , compar with leviathan ' s tail , hi trunk is but the stalk of a lili . the most dire blow from the eleph ' s trunk were as the play tap of a fan , compar with the measureless crush and crash of the sperm whale ' s ponder fluke , which in repeat instanc have one after the other hurl entir boat with all their oar and crew into the air , veri much as an indian juggler toss hi ball . * * though all comparison in the way of gener bulk between the whale and the eleph is preposter , inasmuch as in that particular the eleph stand in much the same respect to the whale that a dog doe to the eleph ; nevertheless , there are not want some point of curiou similitud ; among these is the spout . It is well known that the eleph will often draw up water or dust in hi trunk , and then elev it , jet it forth in a stream . the more I consid thi mighti tail , the more do I deplor my inabl to express it . At time there are gestur in it , which , though they would well grace the hand of man , remain wholli inexplic . In an extens herd , so remark , occasion , are these mystic gestur , that I have heard hunter who have declar them akin to free - mason sign and symbol ; that the whale , inde , by these method intellig convers with the world . nor are there want other motion of the whale in hi gener bodi , full of strang , and unaccount to hi most experienc assail . dissect him how I may , then , I but go skin deep ; I know him not , and never will . but if I know not even the tail of thi whale , how understand hi head ? much more , how comprehend hi face , when face he ha none ? thou shalt see my back part , my tail , he seem to say , but my face shall not be seen . but I can not complet make out hi back part ; and hint what he will about hi face , I say again he ha no face . chapter 87 the grand armada . the long and narrow peninsula of malacca , extend south - eastward from the territori of birmah , form the most southerli point of all asia . In a continu line from that peninsula stretch the long island of sumatra , java , balli , and timor ; which , with mani other , form a vast mole , or rampart , lengthwis connect asia with australia , and divid the long unbroken indian ocean from the thickli stud orient archipelago . thi rampart is pierc by sever salli - port for the conveni of ship and whale ; conspicu among which are the strait of sunda and malacca . By the strait of sunda , chiefli , vessel bound to china from the west , emerg into the china sea . those narrow strait of sunda divid sumatra from java ; and stand midway in that vast rampart of island , buttress by that bold green promontori , known to seamen as java head ; they not a littl correspond to the central gateway open into some vast wall empir : and consid the inexhaust wealth of spice , and silk , and jewel , and gold , and ivori , with which the thousand island of that orient sea are enrich , it seem a signific provis of natur , that such treasur , by the veri format of the land , should at least bear the appear , howev ineffectu , of be guard from the all - grasp western world . the shore of the strait of sunda are unsuppli with those domin fortress which guard the entranc to the mediterranean , the baltic , and the proponti . unlik the dane , these orient do not demand the obsequi homag of lower top - sail from the endless process of ship befor the wind , which for centuri past , by night and by day , have pass between the island of sumatra and java , freight with the costliest cargo of the east . but while they freeli waiv a ceremoni like thi , they do by no mean renounc their claim to more solid tribut . time out of mind the pirat proa of the malay , lurk among the low shade cove and islet of sumatra , have salli out upon the vessel sail through the strait , fierc demand tribut at the point of their spear . though by the repeat bloodi chastis they have receiv at the hand of european cruiser , the audac of these corsair ha of late been somewhat repress ; yet , even at the present day , we occasion hear of english and american vessel , which , in those water , have been remorselessli board and pillag . with a fair , fresh wind , the pequod wa now draw nigh to these strait ; ahab purpos to pass through them into the javan sea , and thenc , cruis northward , over water known to be frequent here and there by the sperm whale , sweep inshor by the philippin island , and gain the far coast of japan , in time for the great whale season there . By these mean , the circumnavig pequod would sweep almost all the known sperm whale cruis ground of the world , previou to descend upon the line in the pacif ; where ahab , though everywher els foil in hi pursuit , firmli count upon give battl to mobi dick , in the sea he wa most known to frequent ; and at a season when he might most reason be presum to be haunt it . but how now ? in thi zone quest , doe ahab touch no land ? doe hi crew drink air ? sure , he will stop for water . nay . for a long time , now , the circu - run sun ha race within hi fieri ring , and need no susten but what ' s in himself . So ahab . mark thi , too , in the whaler . while other hull are load down with alien stuff , to be transfer to foreign wharv ; the world - wander whale - ship carri no cargo but herself and crew , their weapon and their want . she ha a whole lake ' s content bottl in her ampl hold . she is ballast with util ; not altogeth with unus pig - lead and kentledg . she carri year ' water in her . clear old prime nantucket water ; which , when three year afloat , the nantucket , in the pacif , prefer to drink befor the brackish fluid , but yesterday raft off in cask , from the peruvian or indian stream . henc it is , that , while other ship may have gone to china from new york , and back again , touch at a score of port , the whale - ship , in all that interv , may not have sight one grain of soil ; her crew have seen no man but float seamen like themselv . So that did you carri them the news that anoth flood had come ; they would onli answer -- '' well , boy , here ' s the ark ! '' now , as mani sperm whale had been captur off the western coast of java , in the near vicin of the strait of sunda ; inde , as most of the ground , roundabout , wa gener recognis by the fishermen as an excel spot for cruis ; therefor , as the pequod gain more and more upon java head , the look - out were repeatedli hail , and admonish to keep wide awak . but though the green palmi cliff of the land soon loom on the starboard bow , and with delight nostril the fresh cinnamon wa snuf in the air , yet not a singl jet wa descri . almost renounc all thought of fall in with ani game hereabout , the ship had well nigh enter the strait , when the customari cheer cri wa heard from aloft , and ere long a spectacl of singular magnific salut us . but here be it premis , that owe to the unweari activ with which of late they have been hunt over all four ocean , the sperm whale , instead of almost invari sail in small detach compani , as in former time , are now frequent met with in extens herd , sometim embrac so great a multitud , that it would almost seem as if numer nation of them had sworn solemn leagu and coven for mutual assist and protect . To thi aggreg of the sperm whale into such immens caravan , may be imput the circumst that even in the best cruis ground , you may now sometim sail for week and month togeth , without be greet by a singl spout ; and then be suddenli salut by what sometim seem thousand on thousand . broad on both bow , at the distanc of some two or three mile , and form a great semicircl , embrac one half of the level horizon , a continu chain of whale - jet were up - play and sparkl in the noon - day air . unlik the straight perpendicular twin - jet of the right whale , which , divid at top , fall over in two branch , like the cleft droop bough of a willow , the singl forward - slant spout of the sperm whale present a thick curl bush of white mist , continu rise and fall away to leeward . seen from the pequod ' s deck , then , as she would rise on a high hill of the sea , thi host of vapouri spout , individu curl up into the air , and beheld through a blend atmospher of bluish haze , show like the thousand cheer chimney of some dens metropoli , descri of a balmi autumn morn , by some horseman on a height . As march armi approach an unfriendli defil in the mountain , acceler their march , all eager to place that peril passag in their rear , and onc more expand in compar secur upon the plain ; even so did thi vast fleet of whale now seem hurri forward through the strait ; gradual contract the wing of their semicircl , and swim on , in one solid , but still crescent centr . crowd all sail the pequod press after them ; the harpoon handl their weapon , and loudli cheer from the head of their yet suspend boat . If the wind onli held , littl doubt had they , that chase through these strait of sunda , the vast host would onli deploy into the orient sea to wit the captur of not a few of their number . and who could tell whether , in that congreg caravan , mobi dick himself might not temporarili be swim , like the worship white - eleph in the coron process of the siames ! So with stun - sail pile on stun - sail , we sail along , drive these leviathan befor us ; when , of a sudden , the voic of tashtego wa heard , loudli direct attent to someth in our wake . correspond to the crescent in our van , we beheld anoth in our rear . It seem form of detach white vapour , rise and fall someth like the spout of the whale ; onli they did not so complet come and go ; for they constantli hover , without final disappear . level hi glass at thi sight , ahab quickli revolv in hi pivot - hole , cri , `` aloft there , and rig whip and bucket to wet the sail ; -- malay , sir , and after us ! '' As if too long lurk behind the headland , till the pequod should fairli have enter the strait , these rascal asiat were now in hot pursuit , to make up for their over - cautiou delay . but when the swift pequod , with a fresh lead wind , wa herself in hot chase ; how veri kind of these tawni philanthropist to assist in speed her on to her own chosen pursuit , -- mere ride - whip and rowel to her , that they were . As with glass under arm , ahab to - and - fro pace the deck ; in hi forward turn behold the monster he chase , and in the after one the bloodthirsti pirat chase him ; some such fanci as the abov seem hi . and when he glanc upon the green wall of the wateri defil in which the ship wa then sail , and bethought him that through that gate lay the rout to hi vengeanc , and beheld , how that through that same gate he wa now both chase and be chase to hi deadli end ; and not onli that , but a herd of remorseless wild pirat and inhuman atheist devil were infern cheer him on with their curs ; -- when all these conceit had pass through hi brain , ahab ' s brow wa left gaunt and rib , like the black sand beach after some stormi tide ha been gnaw it , without be abl to drag the firm thing from it place . but thought like these troubl veri few of the reckless crew ; and when , after steadili drop and drop the pirat astern , the pequod at last shot by the vivid green cockatoo point on the sumatra side , emerg at last upon the broad water beyond ; then , the harpoon seem more to griev that the swift whale had been gain upon the ship , than to rejoic that the ship had so victori gain upon the malay . but still drive on in the wake of the whale , at length they seem abat their speed ; gradual the ship near them ; and the wind now die away , word wa pass to spring to the boat . but no sooner did the herd , by some presum wonder instinct of the sperm whale , becom notifi of the three keel that were after them , -- though as yet a mile in their rear , -- than they ralli again , and form in close rank and battalion , so that their spout all look like flash line of stack bayonet , move on with redoubl veloc . strip to our shirt and drawer , we sprang to the white - ash , and after sever hour ' pull were almost dispos to renounc the chase , when a gener paus commot among the whale gave anim token that they were now at last under the influenc of that strang perplex of inert irresolut , which , when the fishermen perceiv it in the whale , they say he is galli . the compact martial column in which they had been hitherto rapidli and steadili swim , were now broken up in one measureless rout ; and like king poru ' eleph in the indian battl with alexand , they seem go mad with constern . In all direct expand in vast irregular circl , and aimlessli swim hither and thither , by their short thick spout , they plainli betray their distract of panic . thi wa still more strang evinc by those of their number , who , complet paralys as it were , helplessli float like water - log dismantl ship on the sea . had these leviathan been but a flock of simpl sheep , pursu over the pastur by three fierc wolv , they could not possibl have evinc such excess dismay . but thi occasion timid is characterist of almost all herd creatur . though band togeth in ten of thousand , the lion - mane buffalo of the west have fled befor a solitari horseman . wit , too , all human be , how when herd togeth in the sheepfold of a theatr ' s pit , they will , at the slightest alarm of fire , rush helter - skelter for the outlet , crowd , trampl , jam , and remorselessli dash each other to death . best , therefor , withhold ani amaz at the strang galli whale befor us , for there is no folli of the beast of the earth which is not infinit outdon by the mad of men . though mani of the whale , as ha been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observ that as a whole the herd neither advanc nor retreat , but collect remain in one place . As is customari in those case , the boat at onc separ , each make for some one lone whale on the outskirt of the shoal . In about three minut ' time , queequeg ' s harpoon wa flung ; the stricken fish dart blind spray in our face , and then run away with us like light , steer straight for the heart of the herd . though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumst , is in no wise unpreced ; and inde is almost alway more or less anticip ; yet doe it present one of the more peril vicissitud of the fisheri . for as the swift monster drag you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and onli exist in a deliri throb . As , blind and deaf , the whale plung forward , as if by sheer power of speed to rid himself of the iron leech that had fasten to him ; as we thu tore a white gash in the sea , on all side menac as we flew , by the craze creatur to and fro rush about us ; our beset boat wa like a ship mob by ice - isl in a tempest , and strive to steer through their complic channel and strait , know not at what moment it may be lock in and crush . but not a bit daunt , queequeg steer us man ; now sheer off from thi monster directli across our rout in advanc ; now edg away from that , whose coloss fluke were suspend overhead , while all the time , starbuck stood up in the bow , lanc in hand , prick out of our way whatev whale he could reach by short dart , for there wa no time to make long one . nor were the oarsmen quit idl , though their wont duti wa now altogeth dispens with . they chiefli attend to the shout part of the busi . `` out of the way , commodor ! '' cri one , to a great dromedari that of a sudden rose bodili to the surfac , and for an instant threaten to swamp us . `` hard down with your tail , there ! '' cri a second to anoth , which , close to our gunwal , seem calmli cool himself with hi own fan - like extrem . all whaleboat carri certain curiou contriv , origin invent by the nantucket indian , call drugg . two thick squar of wood of equal size are stoutli clench togeth , so that they cross each other ' s grain at right angl ; a line of consider length is then attach to the middl of thi block , and the other end of the line be loop , it can in a moment be fasten to a harpoon . It is chiefli among galli whale that thi drugg is use . for then , more whale are close round you than you can possibl chase at one time . but sperm whale are not everi day encount ; while you may , then , you must kill all you can . and if you can not kill them all at onc , you must wing them , so that they can be afterward kill at your leisur . henc it is , that at time like these the drugg , come into requisit . our boat wa furnish with three of them . the first and second were success dart , and we saw the whale staggeringli run off , fetter by the enorm sidelong resist of the tow drugg . they were cramp like malefactor with the chain and ball . but upon fling the third , in the act of toss overboard the clumsi wooden block , it caught under one of the seat of the boat , and in an instant tore it out and carri it away , drop the oarsman in the boat ' s bottom as the seat slid from under him . On both side the sea came in at the wound plank , but we stuf two or three drawer and shirt in , and so stop the leak for the time . It had been next to imposs to dart these drug - harpoon , were it not that as we advanc into the herd , our whale ' s way greatli diminish ; moreov , that as we went still further and further from the circumfer of commot , the dire disord seem wane . So that when at last the jerk harpoon drew out , and the tow whale sideway vanish ; then , with the taper forc of hi part momentum , we glide between two whale into the innermost heart of the shoal , as if from some mountain torrent we had slid into a seren valley lake . here the storm in the roar glen between the outermost whale , were heard but not felt . In thi central expans the sea present that smooth satin - like surfac , call a sleek , produc by the subtl moistur thrown off by the whale in hi more quiet mood . ye , we were now in that enchant calm which they say lurk at the heart of everi commot . and still in the distract distanc we beheld the tumult of the outer concentr circl , and saw success pod of whale , eight or ten in each , swiftli go round and round , like multipli span of hors in a ring ; and so close shoulder to shoulder , that a titan circu - rider might easili have over - arch the middl one , and so have gone round on their back . owe to the densiti of the crowd of repos whale , more immedi surround the embay axi of the herd , no possibl chanc of escap wa at present afford us . We must watch for a breach in the live wall that hem us in ; the wall that had onli admit us in order to shut us up . keep at the centr of the lake , we were occasion visit by small tame cow and calv ; the women and children of thi rout host . now , inclus of the occasion wide interv between the revolv outer circl , and inclus of the space between the variou pod in ani one of those circl , the entir area at thi junctur , embrac by the whole multitud , must have contain at least two or three squar mile . At ani rate -- though inde such a test at such a time might be decept -- spout might be discov from our low boat that seem play up almost from the rim of the horizon . I mention thi circumst , becaus , as if the cow and calv had been purpos lock up in thi innermost fold ; and as if the wide extent of the herd had hitherto prevent them from learn the precis caus of it stop ; or , possibl , be so young , unsophist , and everi way innoc and inexperienc ; howev it may have been , these smaller whale -- now and then visit our becalm boat from the margin of the lake -- evinc a wondrou fearless and confid , or els a still becharm panic which it wa imposs not to marvel at . like household dog they came snuffl round us , right up to our gunwal , and touch them ; till it almost seem that some spell had suddenli domest them . queequeg pat their forehead ; starbuck scratch their back with hi lanc ; but fear of the consequ , for the time refrain from dart it . but far beneath thi wondrou world upon the surfac , anoth and still stranger world met our eye as we gaze over the side . for , suspend in those wateri vault , float the form of the nurs mother of the whale , and those that by their enorm girth seem shortli to becom mother . the lake , as I have hint , wa to a consider depth exceedingli transpar ; and as human infant while suckl will calmli and fixedli gaze away from the breast , as if lead two differ live at the time ; and while yet draw mortal nourish , be still spiritu feast upon some unearthli reminisc ; -- even so did the young of these whale seem look up toward us , but not at us , as if we were but a bit of gulfwe in their new - born sight . float on their side , the mother also seem quietli eye us . one of these littl infant , that from certain queer token seem hardli a day old , might have measur some fourteen feet in length , and some six feet in girth . He wa a littl friski ; though as yet hi bodi seem scarc yet recov from that irksom posit it had so late occupi in the matern reticul ; where , tail to head , and all readi for the final spring , the unborn whale lie bent like a tartar ' s bow . the delic side - fin , and the palm of hi fluke , still freshli retain the plait crumpl appear of a babi ' s ear newli arriv from foreign part . `` line ! line ! '' cri queequeg , look over the gunwal ; `` him fast ! him fast ! -- who line him ! who struck ? -- two whale ; one big , one littl ! '' `` what ail ye , man ? '' cri starbuck . `` look - e here , '' said queequeg , point down . As when the stricken whale , that from the tub ha reel out hundr of fathom of rope ; as , after deep sound , he float up again , and show the slacken curl line buoyantli rise and spiral toward the air ; so now , starbuck saw long coil of the umbil cord of madam leviathan , by which the young cub seem still tether to it dam . not seldom in the rapid vicissitud of the chase , thi natur line , with the matern end loos , becom entangl with the hempen one , so that the cub is therebi trap . some of the subtlest secret of the sea seem divulg to us in thi enchant pond . We saw young leviathan amour in the deep . * * the sperm whale , as with all other speci of the leviathan , but unlik most other fish , breed indiffer at all season ; after a gestat which may probabl be set down at nine month , produc but one at a time ; though in some few known instanc give birth to an esau and jacob : -- a conting provid for in suckl by two teat , curious situat , one on each side of the anu ; but the breast themselv extend upward from that . when by chanc these preciou part in a nurs whale are cut by the hunter ' s lanc , the mother ' s pour milk and blood rivallingli discolour the sea for rod . the milk is veri sweet and rich ; it ha been tast by man ; it might do well with strawberri . when overflow with mutual esteem , the whale salut more hominum . and thu , though surround by circl upon circl of constern and affright , did these inscrut creatur at the centr freeli and fearlessli indulg in all peac concern ; yea , seren revel in dallianc and delight . but even so , amid the tornado atlant of my be , do I myself still for ever central disport in mute calm ; and while ponder planet of unwan woe revolv round me , deep down and deep inland there I still bath me in etern mild of joy . meanwhil , as we thu lay entranc , the occasion sudden frantic spectacl in the distanc evinc the activ of the other boat , still engag in drug the whale on the frontier of the host ; or possibl carri on the war within the first circl , where abund of room and some conveni retreat were afford them . but the sight of the enrag drug whale now and then blindli dart to and fro across the circl , wa noth to what at last met our eye . It is sometim the custom when fast to a whale more than commonli power and alert , to seek to hamstr him , as it were , by sunder or maim hi gigant tail - tendon . It is done by dart a short - handl cut - spade , to which is attach a rope for haul it back again . A whale wound ( as we afterward learn ) in thi part , but not effectu , as it seem , had broken away from the boat , carri along with him half of the harpoon line ; and in the extraordinari agoni of the wound , he wa now dash among the revolv circl like the lone mount desperado arnold , at the battl of saratoga , carri dismay wherev he went . but agon as wa the wound of thi whale , and an appal spectacl enough , ani way ; yet the peculiar horror with which he seem to inspir the rest of the herd , wa owe to a caus which at first the interven distanc obscur from us . but at length we perceiv that by one of the unimagin accid of the fisheri , thi whale had becom entangl in the harpoon - line that he tow ; he had also run away with the cut - spade in him ; and while the free end of the rope attach to that weapon , had perman caught in the coil of the harpoon - line round hi tail , the cut - spade itself had work loos from hi flesh . So that torment to mad , he wa now churn through the water , violent flail with hi flexibl tail , and toss the keen spade about him , wound and murder hi own comrad . thi terrif object seem to recal the whole herd from their stationari fright . first , the whale form the margin of our lake began to crowd a littl , and tumbl against each other , as if lift by half spent billow from afar ; then the lake itself began faintli to heav and swell ; the submarin bridal - chamber and nurseri vanish ; in more and more contract orbit the whale in the more central circl began to swim in thicken cluster . ye , the long calm wa depart . A low advanc hum wa soon heard ; and then like to the tumultu mass of block - ice when the great river hudson break up in spring , the entir host of whale came tumbl upon their inner centr , as if to pile themselv up in one common mountain . instantli starbuck and queequeg chang place ; starbuck take the stern . `` oar ! oar ! '' he intens whisper , seiz the helm -- '' gripe your oar , and clutch your soul , now ! My god , men , stand by ! shove him off , you queequeg -- the whale there ! -- prick him ! -- hit him ! stand up -- stand up , and stay so ! spring , men -- pull , men ; never mind their back -- scrape them ! -- scrape away ! '' the boat wa now all but jam between two vast black bulk , leav a narrow dardanel between their long length . but by desper endeavor we at last shot into a temporari open ; then give way rapidli , and at the same time earnestli watch for anoth outlet . after mani similar hair - breadth escap , we at last swiftli glide into what had just been one of the outer circl , but now cross by random whale , all violent make for one centr . thi lucki salvat wa cheapli purchas by the loss of queequeg ' s hat , who , while stand in the bow to prick the fugit whale , had hi hat taken clean from hi head by the air - eddi made by the sudden toss of a pair of broad fluke close by . riotou and disord as the univers commot now wa , it soon resolv itself into what seem a systemat movement ; for have clump togeth at last in one dens bodi , they then renew their onward flight with augment fleet . further pursuit wa useless ; but the boat still linger in their wake to pick up what drug whale might be drop astern , and likewis to secur one which flask had kill and waif . the waif is a pennon pole , two or three of which are carri by everi boat ; and which , when addit game is at hand , are insert upright into the float bodi of a dead whale , both to mark it place on the sea , and also as token of prior possess , should the boat of ani other ship draw near . the result of thi lower wa somewhat illustr of that sagaci say in the fisheri , -- the more whale the less fish . Of all the drug whale onli one wa captur . the rest contriv to escap for the time , but onli to be taken , as will hereaft be seen , by some other craft than the pequod . chapter 88 school and schoolmast . the previou chapter gave account of an immens bodi or herd of sperm whale , and there wa also then given the probabl caus induc those vast aggreg . now , though such great bodi are at time encount , yet , as must have been seen , even at the present day , small detach band are occasion observ , embrac from twenti to fifti individu each . such band are known as school . they gener are of two sort ; those compos almost entir of femal , and those muster none but young vigor male , or bull , as they are familiarli design . In cavali attend upon the school of femal , you invari see a male of full grown magnitud , but not old ; who , upon ani alarm , evinc hi gallantri by fall in the rear and cover the flight of hi ladi . In truth , thi gentleman is a luxuri ottoman , swim about over the wateri world , surroundingli accompani by all the solac and endear of the harem . the contrast between thi ottoman and hi concubin is strike ; becaus , while he is alway of the largest leviathan proport , the ladi , even at full growth , are not more than one - third of the bulk of an averag - size male . they are compar delic , inde ; I dare say , not to exceed half a dozen yard round the waist . nevertheless , it can not be deni , that upon the whole they are hereditarili entitl to embonpoint . It is veri curiou to watch thi harem and it lord in their indol rambl . like fashion , they are for ever on the move in leisur search of varieti . you meet them on the line in time for the full flower of the equatori feed season , have just return , perhap , from spend the summer in the northern sea , and so cheat summer of all unpleas weari and warmth . By the time they have loung up and down the promenad of the equat awhil , they start for the orient water in anticip of the cool season there , and so evad the other excess temperatur of the year . when seren advanc on one of these journey , if ani strang suspici sight are seen , my lord whale keep a wari eye on hi interest famili . should ani unwarrant pert young leviathan come that way , presum to draw confidenti close to one of the ladi , with what prodigi furi the bashaw assail him , and chase him away ! high time , inde , if unprincipl young rake like him are to be permit to invad the sanctiti of domest bliss ; though do what the bashaw will , he can not keep the most notori lothario out of hi bed ; for , ala ! all fish bed in common . As ashor , the ladi often caus the most terribl duel among their rival admir ; just so with the whale , who sometim come to deadli battl , and all for love . they fenc with their long lower jaw , sometim lock them togeth , and so strive for the supremaci like elk that warringli interweav their antler . not a few are captur have the deep scar of these encount , -- furrow head , broken teeth , scollop fin ; and in some instanc , wrench and disloc mouth . but suppos the invad of domest bliss to betak himself away at the first rush of the harem ' s lord , then is it veri divert to watch that lord . gentli he insinu hi vast bulk among them again and revel there awhil , still in tantal vicin to young lothario , like piou solomon devoutli worship among hi thousand concubin . grant other whale to be in sight , the fishermen will seldom give chase to one of these grand turk ; for these grand turk are too lavish of their strength , and henc their unctuous is small . As for the son and the daughter they beget , whi , those son and daughter must take care of themselv ; at least , with onli the matern help . for like certain other omnivor rove lover that might be name , my lord whale ha no tast for the nurseri , howev much for the bower ; and so , be a great travel , he leav hi anonym babi all over the world ; everi babi an exot . In good time , nevertheless , as the ardour of youth declin ; as year and dump increas ; as reflect lend her solemn paus ; in short , as a gener lassitud overtak the sate turk ; then a love of eas and virtu supplant the love for maiden ; our ottoman enter upon the impot , repent , admonitori stage of life , forswear , disband the harem , and grown to an exemplari , sulki old soul , goe about all alon among the meridian and parallel say hi prayer , and warn each young leviathan from hi amor error . now , as the harem of whale is call by the fishermen a school , so is the lord and master of that school technic known as the schoolmast . It is therefor not in strict charact , howev admir satir , that after go to school himself , he should then go abroad inculc not what he learn there , but the folli of it . hi titl , schoolmast , would veri natur seem deriv from the name bestow upon the harem itself , but some have surmis that the man who first thu entitl thi sort of ottoman whale , must have read the memoir of vidocq , and inform himself what sort of a countri - schoolmast that famou frenchman wa in hi younger day , and what wa the natur of those occult lesson he inculc into some of hi pupil . the same secluded and isol to which the schoolmast whale betak himself in hi advanc year , is true of all age sperm whale . almost univers , a lone whale -- as a solitari leviathan is call -- prove an ancient one . like vener moss - beard daniel boon , he will have no one near him but natur herself ; and her he take to wife in the wilder of water , and the best of wive she is , though she keep so mani moodi secret . the school compos none but young and vigor male , previous mention , offer a strong contrast to the harem school . for while those femal whale are characterist timid , the young male , or forti - barrel - bull , as they call them , are by far the most pugnaci of all leviathan , and proverbi the most danger to encount ; except those wondrou grey - head , grizzl whale , sometim met , and these will fight you like grim fiend exasper by a penal gout . the forti - barrel - bull school are larger than the harem school . like a mob of young collegian , they are full of fight , fun , and wicked , tumbl round the world at such a reckless , rollick rate , that no prudent underwrit would insur them ani more than he would a riotou lad at yale or harvard . they soon relinquish thi turbul though , and when about three - fourth grown , break up , and separ go about in quest of settlement , that is , harem . anoth point of differ between the male and femal school is still more characterist of the sex . say you strike a forti - barrel - bull -- poor devil ! all hi comrad quit him . but strike a member of the harem school , and her companion swim around her with everi token of concern , sometim linger so near her and so long , as themselv to fall a prey . chapter 89 fast - fish and loos - fish . the allus to the waif and waif - pole in the last chapter but one , necessit some account of the law and regul of the whale fisheri , of which the waif may be deem the grand symbol and badg . It frequent happen that when sever ship are cruis in compani , a whale may be struck by one vessel , then escap , and be final kill and captur by anoth vessel ; and herein are indirectli compris mani minor conting , all partak of thi one grand featur . for exampl , -- after a weari and peril chase and captur of a whale , the bodi may get loos from the ship by reason of a violent storm ; and drift far away to leeward , be retaken by a second whaler , who , in a calm , snugli tow it alongsid , without risk of life or line . thu the most vexati and violent disput would often aris between the fishermen , were there not some written or unwritten , univers , undisput law applic to all case . perhap the onli formal whale code author by legisl enact , wa that of holland . It wa decre by the state - gener in A . D . 1695 . but though no other nation ha ever had ani written whale law , yet the american fishermen have been their own legisl and lawyer in thi matter . they have provid a system which for ters comprehens surpass justinian ' s pandect and the By - law of the chines societi for the suppress of meddl with other peopl ' s busi . ye ; these law might be engraven on a queen ann ' s forth , or the barb of a harpoon , and worn round the neck , so small are they . I . A fast - fish belong to the parti fast to it . II . A loos - fish is fair game for anybodi who can soonest catch it . but what play the mischief with thi masterli code is the admir breviti of it , which necessit a vast volum of commentari to expound it . first : what is a fast - fish ? aliv or dead a fish is technic fast , when it is connect with an occupi ship or boat , by ani medium at all control by the occup or occup , -- a mast , an oar , a nine - inch cabl , a telegraph wire , or a strand of cobweb , it is all the same . likewis a fish is technic fast when it bear a waif , or ani other recognis symbol of possess ; so long as the parti waif it plainli evinc their abil at ani time to take it alongsid , as well as their intent so to do . these are scientif commentari ; but the commentari of the whalemen themselv sometim consist in hard word and harder knock -- the coke - upon - littleton of the fist . true , among the more upright and honour whalemen allow are alway made for peculiar case , where it would be an outrag moral injustic for one parti to claim possess of a whale previous chase or kill by anoth parti . but other are by no mean so scrupul . some fifti year ago there wa a curiou case of whale - trover litig in england , wherein the plaintiff set forth that after a hard chase of a whale in the northern sea ; and when inde they ( the plaintiff ) had succeed in harpoon the fish ; they were at last , through peril of their live , oblig to forsak not onli their line , but their boat itself . ultim the defend ( the crew of anoth ship ) came up with the whale , struck , kill , seiz , and final appropri it befor the veri eye of the plaintiff . and when those defend were remonstr with , their captain snap hi finger in the plaintiff ' teeth , and assur them that by way of doxolog to the deed he had done , he would now retain their line , harpoon , and boat , which had remain attach to the whale at the time of the seizur . wherefor the plaintiff now su for the recoveri of the valu of their whale , line , harpoon , and boat . Mr . erskin wa counsel for the defend ; lord ellenborough wa the judg . In the cours of the defenc , the witti erskin went on to illustr hi posit , by allud to a recent crim . con . case , wherein a gentleman , after in vain tri to bridl hi wife ' s vicious , had at last abandon her upon the sea of life ; but in the cours of year , repent of that step , he institut an action to recov possess of her . erskin wa on the other side ; and he then support it by say , that though the gentleman had origin harpoon the ladi , and had onc had her fast , and onli by reason of the great stress of her plung vicious , had at last abandon her ; yet abandon her he did , so that she becam a loos - fish ; and therefor when a subsequ gentleman re - harpoon her , the ladi then becam that subsequ gentleman ' s properti , along with whatev harpoon might have been found stick in her . now in the present case erskin contend that the exampl of the whale and the ladi were reciproc illustr of each other . these plead , and the counter plead , be duli heard , the veri learn judg in set term decid , to wit , -- that as for the boat , he award it to the plaintiff , becaus they had mere abandon it to save their live ; but that with regard to the controvert whale , harpoon , and line , they belong to the defend ; the whale , becaus it wa a loos - fish at the time of the final captur ; and the harpoon and line becaus when the fish made off with them , it ( the fish ) acquir a properti in those articl ; and henc anybodi who afterward took the fish had a right to them . now the defend afterward took the fish ; ergo , the aforesaid articl were their . A common man look at thi decis of the veri learn judg , might possibl object to it . but plough up to the primari rock of the matter , the two great principl laid down in the twin whale law previous quot , and appli and elucid by lord ellenborough in the abov cite case ; these two law touch fast - fish and loos - fish , I say , will , on reflect , be found the fundament of all human jurisprud ; for notwithstand it complic traceri of sculptur , the templ of the law , like the templ of the philistin , ha but two prop to stand on . Is it not a say in everi one ' s mouth , possess is half of the law : that is , regardless of how the thing came into possess ? but often possess is the whole of the law . what are the sinew and soul of russian serf and republican slave but fast - fish , whereof possess is the whole of the law ? what to the rapaci landlord is the widow ' s last mite but a fast - fish ? what is yonder undetect villain ' s marbl mansion with a door - plate for a waif ; what is that but a fast - fish ? what is the ruinou discount which mordecai , the broker , get from poor woebegon , the bankrupt , on a loan to keep woebegon ' s famili from starvat ; what is that ruinou discount but a fast - fish ? what is the archbishop of savesoul ' s incom of l100 , 000 seiz from the scant bread and chees of hundr of thousand of broken - back labor ( all sure of heaven without ani of savesoul ' s help ) what is that globular l100 , 000 but a fast - fish ? what are the duke of dunder ' s hereditari town and hamlet but fast - fish ? what to that redoubt harpoon , john bull , is poor ireland , but a fast - fish ? what to that apostol lancer , brother jonathan , is texa but a fast - fish ? and concern all these , is not possess the whole of the law ? but if the doctrin of fast - fish be pretti gener applic , the kindr doctrin of loos - fish is still more wide so . that is intern and univers applic . what wa america in 1492 but a loos - fish , in which columbu struck the spanish standard by way of waif it for hi royal master and mistress ? what wa poland to the czar ? what greec to the turk ? what india to england ? what at last will mexico be to the unit state ? all loos - fish . what are the right of man and the liberti of the world but loos - fish ? what all men ' s mind and opinion but loos - fish ? what is the principl of religi belief in them but a loos - fish ? what to the ostentati smuggl verbalist are the thought of thinker but loos - fish ? what is the great globe itself but a loos - fish ? and what are you , reader , but a loos - fish and a fast - fish , too ? chapter 90 head or tail . `` De balena vero sufficit , si rex habeat caput , et regina caudam . '' bracton , L . 3 , C . 3 . latin from the book of the law of england , which taken along with the context , mean , that of all whale captur by anybodi on the coast of that land , the king , as honourari grand harpoon , must have the head , and the queen be respect present with the tail . A divis which , in the whale , is much like halv an appl ; there is no intermedi remaind . now as thi law , under a modifi form , is to thi day in forc in england ; and as it offer in variou respect a strang anomali touch the gener law of fast and loos - fish , it is here treat of in a separ chapter , on the same courteou principl that prompt the english railway to be at the expens of a separ car , special reserv for the accommod of royalti . In the first place , in curiou proof of the fact that the abov - mention law is still in forc , I proceed to lay befor you a circumst that happen within the last two year . It seem that some honest marin of dover , or sandwich , or some one of the cinqu port , had after a hard chase succeed in kill and beach a fine whale which they had origin descri afar off from the shore . now the cinqu port are partial or somehow under the jurisdict of a sort of policeman or beadl , call a lord warden . hold the offic directli from the crown , I believ , all the royal emolu incid to the cinqu port territori becom by assign hi . By some writer thi offic is call a sinecur . but not so . becaus the lord warden is busili employ at time in fob hi perquisit ; which are hi chiefli by virtu of that same fob of them . now when these poor sun - burnt marin , bare - foot , and with their trowser roll high up on their eeli leg , had wearili haul their fat fish high and dri , promis themselv a good l150 from the preciou oil and bone ; and in fantasi sip rare tea with their wive , and good ale with their croni , upon the strength of their respect share ; up step a veri learn and most christian and charit gentleman , with a copi of blackston under hi arm ; and lay it upon the whale ' s head , he say -- '' hand off ! thi fish , my master , is a fast - fish . I seiz it as the lord warden ' s . '' upon thi the poor marin in their respect constern -- so truli english -- know not what to say , fall to vigor scratch their head all round ; meanwhil ruefulli glanc from the whale to the stranger . but that did in nowis mend the matter , or at all soften the hard heart of the learn gentleman with the copi of blackston . At length one of them , after long scratch about for hi idea , made bold to speak , `` pleas , sir , who is the lord warden ? '' `` the duke . '' `` but the duke had noth to do with take thi fish ? '' `` It is hi . '' `` We have been at great troubl , and peril , and some expens , and is all that to go to the duke ' s benefit ; we get noth at all for our pain but our blister ? '' `` It is hi . '' `` Is the duke so veri poor as to be forc to thi desper mode of get a livelihood ? '' `` It is hi . '' `` I thought to reliev my old bed - ridden mother by part of my share of thi whale . '' `` It is hi . '' `` won ' t the duke be content with a quarter or a half ? '' `` It is hi . '' In a word , the whale wa seiz and sold , and hi grace the duke of wellington receiv the money . think that view in some particular light , the case might by a bare possibl in some small degre be deem , under the circumst , a rather hard one , an honest clergyman of the town respect address a note to hi grace , beg him to take the case of those unfortun marin into full consider . To which my lord duke in substanc repli ( both letter were publish ) that he had alreadi done so , and receiv the money , and would be oblig to the reverend gentleman if for the futur he ( the reverend gentleman ) would declin meddl with other peopl ' s busi . Is thi the still milit old man , stand at the corner of the three kingdom , on all hand coerc alm of beggar ? It will readili be seen that in thi case the alleg right of the duke to the whale wa a deleg one from the sovereign . We must need inquir then on what principl the sovereign is origin invest with that right . the law itself ha alreadi been set forth . but plowdon give us the reason for it . say plowdon , the whale so caught belong to the king and queen , `` becaus of it superior excel . '' and by the soundest comment thi ha ever been held a cogent argument in such matter . but whi should the king have the head , and the queen the tail ? A reason for that , ye lawyer ! In hi treatis on `` queen - gold , '' or queen - pinmoney , an old king ' s bench author , one william prynn , thu discourseth : `` Ye tail is ye queen ' s , that ye queen ' s wardrob may be suppli with ye whalebon . '' now thi wa written at a time when the black limber bone of the greenland or right whale wa larg use in ladi ' bodic . but thi same bone is not in the tail ; it is in the head , which is a sad mistak for a sagaci lawyer like prynn . but is the queen a mermaid , to be present with a tail ? An allegor mean may lurk here . there are two royal fish so style by the english law writer -- the whale and the sturgeon ; both royal properti under certain limit , and nomin suppli the tenth branch of the crown ' s ordinari revenu . I know not that ani other author ha hint of the matter ; but by infer it seem to me that the sturgeon must be divid in the same way as the whale , the king receiv the highli dens and elast head peculiar to that fish , which , symbol regard , may possibl be humor ground upon some presum congeni . and thu there seem a reason in all thing , even in law . chapter 91 the pequod meet the rose - bud . `` In vain it wa to rake for ambergries in the paunch of thi leviathan , insuffer fetor deni not inquiri . '' sir T . brown , V . E . It wa a week or two after the last whale scene recount , and when we were slowli sail over a sleepi , vapouri , mid - day sea , that the mani nose on the pequod ' s deck prove more vigil discover than the three pair of eye aloft . A peculiar and not veri pleasant smell wa smelt in the sea . `` I will bet someth now , '' said stubb , `` that somewher hereabout are some of those drug whale we tickl the other day . I thought they would keel up befor long . '' present , the vapour in advanc slid asid ; and there in the distanc lay a ship , whose furl sail betoken that some sort of whale must be alongsid . As we glide nearer , the stranger show french colour from hi peak ; and by the eddi cloud of vultur sea - fowl that circl , and hover , and swoop around him , it wa plain that the whale alongsid must be what the fishermen call a blast whale , that is , a whale that ha die unmolest on the sea , and so float an unappropri corps . It may well be conceiv , what an unsavori odor such a mass must exhal ; wors than an assyrian citi in the plagu , when the live are incompet to buri the depart . So intoler inde is it regard by some , that no cupid could persuad them to moor alongsid of it . yet are there those who will still do it ; notwithstand the fact that the oil obtain from such subject is of a veri inferior qualiti , and by no mean of the natur of attar - of - rose . come still nearer with the expir breez , we saw that the frenchman had a second whale alongsid ; and thi second whale seem even more of a nosegay than the first . In truth , it turn out to be one of those problemat whale that seem to dri up and die with a sort of prodigi dyspepsia , or indigest ; leav their defunct bodi almost entir bankrupt of anyth like oil . nevertheless , in the proper place we shall see that no know fisherman will ever turn up hi nose at such a whale as thi , howev much he may shun blast whale in gener . the pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger , that stubb vow he recognis hi cut spade - pole entangl in the line that were knot round the tail of one of these whale . `` there ' s a pretti fellow , now , '' he banteringli laugh , stand in the ship ' s bow , `` there ' s a jackal for ye ! I well know that these crappo of frenchmen are but poor devil in the fisheri ; sometim lower their boat for breaker , mistak them for sperm whale spout ; ye , and sometim sail from their port with their hold full of box of tallow candl , and case of snuffer , forese that all the oil they will get won ' t be enough to dip the captain ' s wick into ; aye , we all know these thing ; but look ye , here ' s a crappo that is content with our leav , the drug whale there , I mean ; aye , and is content too with scrape the dri bone of that other preciou fish he ha there . poor devil ! I say , pass round a hat , some one , and let ' s make him a present of a littl oil for dear chariti ' s sake . for what oil he ' ll get from that drug whale there , wouldn ' t be fit to burn in a jail ; no , not in a condemn cell . and as for the other whale , whi , I ' ll agre to get more oil by chop up and tri out these three mast of our , than he ' ll get from that bundl of bone ; though , now that I think of it , it may contain someth worth a good deal more than oil ; ye , ambergri . I wonder now if our old man ha thought of that . It ' s worth tri . ye , I ' m for it ; '' and so say he start for the quarter - deck . By thi time the faint air had becom a complet calm ; so that whether or no , the pequod wa now fairli entrap in the smell , with no hope of escap except by it breez up again . issu from the cabin , stubb now call hi boat ' s crew , and pull off for the stranger . draw across her bow , he perceiv that in accord with the fanci french tast , the upper part of her stem - piec wa carv in the like of a huge droop stalk , wa paint green , and for thorn had copper spike project from it here and there ; the whole termin in a symmetr fold bulb of a bright red colour . upon her head board , in larg gilt letter , he read `` bouton de rose , '' -- rose - button , or rose - bud ; and thi wa the romant name of thi aromat ship . though stubb did not understand the bouton part of the inscript , yet the word rose , and the bulbou figur - head put togeth , suffici explain the whole to him . `` A wooden rose - bud , eh ? '' he cri with hi hand to hi nose , `` that will do veri well ; but how like all creation it smell ! '' now in order to hold direct commun with the peopl on deck , he had to pull round the bow to the starboard side , and thu come close to the blast whale ; and so talk over it . arriv then at thi spot , with one hand still to hi nose , he bawl -- '' bouton - de - rose , ahoy ! are there ani of you bouton - de - rose that speak english ? '' `` ye , '' rejoin a guernsey - man from the bulwark , who turn out to be the chief - mate . `` well , then , my bouton - de - rose - bud , have you seen the white whale ? '' `` what whale ? '' `` the white whale -- a sperm whale -- mobi dick , have ye seen him ? `` never heard of such a whale . cachalot blanch ! white whale -- no . '' `` veri good , then ; good bye now , and I ' ll call again in a minut . '' then rapidli pull back toward the pequod , and see ahab lean over the quarter - deck rail await hi report , he mould hi two hand into a trumpet and shout -- '' No , sir ! No ! '' upon which ahab retir , and stubb return to the frenchman . He now perceiv that the guernsey - man , who had just got into the chain , and wa use a cut - spade , had slung hi nose in a sort of bag . `` what ' s the matter with your nose , there ? '' said stubb . `` broke it ? '' `` I wish it wa broken , or that I didn ' t have ani nose at all ! '' answer the guernsey - man , who did not seem to relish the job he wa at veri much . `` but what are you hold your for ? '' `` Oh , noth ! It ' s a wax nose ; I have to hold it on . fine day , ain ' t it ? air rather gardenni , I should say ; throw us a bunch of posi , will ye , bouton - de - rose ? '' `` what in the devil ' s name do you want here ? '' roar the guernseyman , fli into a sudden passion . `` Oh ! keep cool -- cool ? ye , that ' s the word ! whi don ' t you pack those whale in ice while you ' re work at ' em ? but joke asid , though ; do you know , rose - bud , that it ' s all nonsens tri to get ani oil out of such whale ? As for that dri up one , there , he hasn ' t a gill in hi whole carcas . '' `` I know that well enough ; but , d ' ye see , the captain here won ' t believ it ; thi is hi first voyag ; he wa a cologn manufactur befor . but come aboard , and mayhap he ' ll believ you , if he won ' t me ; and so I ' ll get out of thi dirti scrape . '' `` anyth to oblig ye , my sweet and pleasant fellow , '' rejoin stubb , and with that he soon mount to the deck . there a queer scene present itself . the sailor , in tassel cap of red worst , were get the heavi tackl in readi for the whale . but they work rather slow and talk veri fast , and seem in anyth but a good humor . all their nose upwardli project from their face like so mani jib - boom . now and then pair of them would drop their work , and run up to the mast - head to get some fresh air . some think they would catch the plagu , dip oakum in coal - tar , and at interv held it to their nostril . other have broken the stem of their pipe almost short off at the bowl , were vigor puf tobacco - smoke , so that it constantli fill their olfactori . stubb wa struck by a shower of outcri and anathema proceed from the captain ' s round - hous abaft ; and look in that direct saw a fieri face thrust from behind the door , which wa held ajar from within . thi wa the torment surgeon , who , after in vain remonstr against the proceed of the day , had betaken himself to the captain ' s round - hous ( cabinet he call it ) to avoid the pest ; but still , could not help yell out hi entreati and indign at time . mark all thi , stubb argu well for hi scheme , and turn to the guernsey - man had a littl chat with him , dure which the stranger mate express hi detest of hi captain as a conceit ignoramu , who had brought them all into so unsavori and unprofit a pickl . sound him care , stubb further perceiv that the guernsey - man had not the slightest suspicion concern the ambergri . He therefor held hi peac on that head , but otherwis wa quit frank and confidenti with him , so that the two quickli concoct a littl plan for both circumv and satir the captain , without hi at all dream of distrust their sincer . accord to thi littl plan of their , the guernsey - man , under cover of an interpret ' s offic , wa to tell the captain what he pleas , but as come from stubb ; and as for stubb , he wa to utter ani nonsens that should come uppermost in him dure the interview . By thi time their destin victim appear from hi cabin . He wa a small and dark , but rather delic look man for a sea - captain , with larg whisker and moustach , howev ; and wore a red cotton velvet vest with watch - seal at hi side . To thi gentleman , stubb wa now polit introduc by the guernsey - man , who at onc ostentati put on the aspect of interpret between them . `` what shall I say to him first ? '' said he . `` whi , '' said stubb , eye the velvet vest and the watch and seal , `` you may as well begin by tell him that he look a sort of babyish to me , though I don ' t pretend to be a judg . '' `` He say , monsieur , '' said the guernsey - man , in french , turn to hi captain , `` that onli yesterday hi ship spoke a vessel , whose captain and chief - mate , with six sailor , had all die of a fever caught from a blast whale they had brought alongsid . '' upon thi the captain start , and eagerli desir to know more . `` what now ? '' said the guernsey - man to stubb . `` whi , sinc he take it so easi , tell him that now I have eye him care , I ' m quit certain that he ' s no more fit to command a whale - ship than a St . jago monkey . In fact , tell him from me he ' s a baboon . '' `` He vow and declar , monsieur , that the other whale , the dri one , is far more deadli than the blast one ; in fine , monsieur , he conjur us , as we valu our live , to cut loos from these fish . '' instantli the captain ran forward , and in a loud voic command hi crew to desist from hoist the cut - tackl , and at onc cast loos the cabl and chain confin the whale to the ship . `` what now ? '' said the guernsey - man , when the captain had return to them . `` whi , let me see ; ye , you may as well tell him now that -- that -- in fact , tell him I ' ve diddl him , and ( asid to himself ) perhap somebodi els . '' `` He say , monsieur , that he ' s veri happi to have been of ani servic to us . '' hear thi , the captain vow that they were the grate parti ( mean himself and mate ) and conclud by invit stubb down into hi cabin to drink a bottl of bordeaux . `` He want you to take a glass of wine with him , '' said the interpret . `` thank him heartili ; but tell him it ' s against my principl to drink with the man I ' ve diddl . In fact , tell him I must go . '' `` He say , monsieur , that hi principl won ' t admit of hi drink ; but that if monsieur want to live anoth day to drink , then monsieur had best drop all four boat , and pull the ship away from these whale , for it ' s so calm they won ' t drift . '' By thi time stubb wa over the side , and get into hi boat , hail the guernsey - man to thi effect , -- that have a long tow - line in hi boat , he would do what he could to help them , by pull out the lighter whale of the two from the ship ' s side . while the frenchman ' s boat , then , were engag in tow the ship one way , stubb benevol tow away at hi whale the other way , ostentati slack out a most unusu long tow - line . present a breez sprang up ; stubb feign to cast off from the whale ; hoist hi boat , the frenchman soon increas hi distanc , while the pequod slid in between him and stubb ' s whale . whereupon stubb quickli pull to the float bodi , and hail the pequod to give notic of hi intent , at onc proceed to reap the fruit of hi unright cun . seiz hi sharp boat - spade , he commenc an excav in the bodi , a littl behind the side fin . you would almost have thought he wa dig a cellar there in the sea ; and when at length hi spade struck against the gaunt rib , it wa like turn up old roman tile and potteri buri in fat english loam . hi boat ' s crew were all in high excit , eagerli help their chief , and look as anxiou as gold - hunter . and all the time numberless fowl were dive , and duck , and scream , and yell , and fight around them . stubb wa begin to look disappoint , especi as the horribl nosegay increas , when suddenli from out the veri heart of thi plagu , there stole a faint stream of perfum , which flow through the tide of bad smell without be absorb by it , as one river will flow into and then along with anoth , without at all blend with it for a time . `` I have it , I have it , '' cri stubb , with delight , strike someth in the subterranean region , `` a purs ! a purs ! '' drop hi spade , he thrust both hand in , and drew out hand of someth that look like ripe windsor soap , or rich mottl old chees ; veri unctuou and savori withal . you might easili dent it with your thumb ; it is of a hue between yellow and ash colour . and thi , good friend , is ambergri , worth a gold guinea an ounc to ani druggist . some six hand were obtain ; but more wa unavoid lost in the sea , and still more , perhap , might have been secur were it not for impati ahab ' s loud command to stubb to desist , and come on board , els the ship would bid them good bye . chapter 92 ambergri . now thi ambergri is a veri curiou substanc , and so import as an articl of commerc , that in 1791 a certain nantucket - born captain coffin wa examin at the bar of the english hous of common on that subject . for at that time , and inde until a compar late day , the precis origin of ambergri remain , like amber itself , a problem to the learn . though the word ambergri is but the french compound for grey amber , yet the two substanc are quit distinct . for amber , though at time found on the sea - coast , is also dug up in some far inland soil , wherea ambergri is never found except upon the sea . besid , amber is a hard , transpar , brittl , odorless substanc , use for mouth - piec to pipe , for bead and ornament ; but ambergri is soft , waxi , and so highli fragrant and spici , that it is larg use in perfumeri , in pastil , preciou candl , hair - powder , and pomatum . the turk use it in cook , and also carri it to mecca , for the same purpos that frankincens is carri to St . peter ' s in rome . some wine merchant drop a few grain into claret , to flavor it . who would think , then , that such fine ladi and gentlemen should regal themselv with an essenc found in the inglori bowel of a sick whale ! yet so it is . By some , ambergri is suppos to be the caus , and by other the effect , of the dyspepsia in the whale . how to cure such a dyspepsia it were hard to say , unless by administ three or four boat load of brandreth ' s pill , and then run out of harm ' s way , as labor do in blast rock . I have forgotten to say that there were found in thi ambergri , certain hard , round , boni plate , which at first stubb thought might be sailor ' trowser button ; but it afterward turn out that they were noth more than piec of small squid bone embalm in that manner . now that the incorrupt of thi most fragrant ambergri should be found in the heart of such decay ; is thi noth ? bethink thee of that say of St . paul in corinthian , about corrupt and incorrupt ; how that we are sown in dishonour , but rais in glori . and likewis call to mind that say of paracelsu about what it is that maketh the best musk . also forget not the strang fact that of all thing of ill - savor , cologn - water , in it rudiment manufactur stage , is the worst . I should like to conclud the chapter with the abov appeal , but can not , owe to my anxieti to repel a charg often made against whalemen , and which , in the estim of some alreadi bias mind , might be consid as indirectli substanti by what ha been said of the frenchman ' s two whale . elsewher in thi volum the slander aspers ha been disprov , that the vocat of whale is throughout a slatternli , untidi busi . but there is anoth thing to rebut . they hint that all whale alway smell bad . now how did thi odiou stigma origin ? I opin , that it is plainli traceabl to the first arriv of the greenland whale ship in london , more than two centuri ago . becaus those whalemen did not then , and do not now , tri out their oil at sea as the southern ship have alway done ; but cut up the fresh blubber in small bit , thrust it through the bung hole of larg cask , and carri it home in that manner ; the short of the season in those ici sea , and the sudden and violent storm to which they are expos , forbid ani other cours . the consequ is , that upon break into the hold , and unload one of these whale cemeteri , in the greenland dock , a savor is given forth somewhat similar to that aris from excav an old citi grave - yard , for the foundat of a ly - in - hospit . I partli surmis also , that thi wick charg against whaler may be likewis imput to the exist on the coast of greenland , in former time , of a dutch villag call schmerenburgh or smeerenberg , which latter name is the one use by the learn fogo von slack , in hi great work on smell , a text - book on that subject . As it name import ( smeer , fat ; berg , to put up ) , thi villag wa found in order to afford a place for the blubber of the dutch whale fleet to be tri out , without be taken home to holland for that purpos . It wa a collect of furnac , fat - kettl , and oil shed ; and when the work were in full oper certainli gave forth no veri pleasant savor . but all thi is quit differ with a south sea sperm whaler ; which in a voyag of four year perhap , after complet fill her hold with oil , doe not , perhap , consum fifti day in the busi of boil out ; and in the state that it is cask , the oil is nearli scentless . the truth is , that live or dead , if but decent treat , whale as a speci are by no mean creatur of ill odor ; nor can whalemen be recognis , as the peopl of the middl age affect to detect a jew in the compani , by the nose . nor inde can the whale possibl be otherwis than fragrant , when , as a gener thing , he enjoy such high health ; take abund of exercis ; alway out of door ; though , it is true , seldom in the open air . I say , that the motion of a sperm whale ' s fluke abov water dispens a perfum , as when a musk - scent ladi rustl her dress in a warm parlor . what then shall I liken the sperm whale to for fragranc , consid hi magnitud ? must it not be to that famou eleph , with jewel tusk , and redol with myrrh , which wa led out of an indian town to do honour to alexand the great ? chapter 93 the castaway . It wa but some few day after encount the frenchman , that a most signific event befel the most insignific of the pequod ' s crew ; an event most lament ; and which end in provid the sometim madli merri and predestin craft with a live and ever accompani propheci of whatev shatter sequel might prove her own . now , in the whale ship , it is not everi one that goe in the boat . some few hand are reserv call ship - keeper , whose provinc it is to work the vessel while the boat are pursu the whale . As a gener thing , these ship - keeper are as hardi fellow as the men compris the boat ' crew . but if there happen to be an unduli slender , clumsi , or timor wight in the ship , that wight is certain to be made a ship - keeper . It wa so in the pequod with the littl negro pippin by nick - name , pip by abbrevi . poor pip ! ye have heard of him befor ; ye must rememb hi tambourin on that dramat midnight , so gloomi - jolli . In outer aspect , pip and dough - boy made a match , like a black poni and a white one , of equal develop , though of dissimilar colour , driven in one eccentr span . but while hapless dough - boy wa by natur dull and torpid in hi intellect , pip , though over tender - heart , wa at bottom veri bright , with that pleasant , genial , jolli bright peculiar to hi tribe ; a tribe , which ever enjoy all holiday and festiv with finer , freer relish than ani other race . for black , the year ' s calendar should show naught but three hundr and sixti - five fourth of juli and new year ' s day . nor smile so , while I write that thi littl black wa brilliant , for even black ha it brillianc ; behold yon lustrou eboni , panel in king ' s cabinet . but pip love life , and all life ' s peaceabl secur ; so that the panic - strike busi in which he had somehow unaccount becom entrap , had most sadli blur hi bright ; though , as ere long will be seen , what wa thu temporarili subdu in him , in the end wa destin to be luridli illumin by strang wild fire , that fictiti show him off to ten time the natur lustr with which in hi nativ tolland counti in connecticut , he had onc enliven mani a fiddler ' s frolic on the green ; and at melodi even - tide , with hi gay ha - ha ! had turn the round horizon into one star - bell tambourin . So , though in the clear air of day , suspend against a blue - vein neck , the pure - water diamond drop will health glow ; yet , when the cun jewel would show you the diamond in it most impress lustr , he lay it against a gloomi ground , and then light it up , not by the sun , but by some unnatur gase . then come out those fieri effulg , infern superb ; then the evil - blaze diamond , onc the divinest symbol of the crystal sky , look like some crown - jewel stolen from the king of hell . but let us to the stori . It came to pass , that in the ambergri affair stubb ' s after - oarsman chanc so to sprain hi hand , as for a time to becom quit maim ; and , temporarili , pip wa put into hi place . the first time stubb lower with him , pip evinc much nervous ; but happili , for that time , escap close contact with the whale ; and therefor came off not altogeth discredit ; though stubb observ him , took care , afterward , to exhort him to cherish hi courag to the utmost , for he might often find it need . now upon the second lower , the boat paddl upon the whale ; and as the fish receiv the dart iron , it gave it customari rap , which happen , in thi instanc , to be right under poor pip ' s seat . the involuntari constern of the moment caus him to leap , paddl in hand , out of the boat ; and in such a way , that part of the slack whale line come against hi chest , he breast it overboard with him , so as to becom entangl in it , when at last plump into the water . that instant the stricken whale start on a fierc run , the line swiftli straighten ; and presto ! poor pip came all foam up to the chock of the boat , remorselessli drag there by the line , which had taken sever turn around hi chest and neck . tashtego stood in the bow . He wa full of the fire of the hunt . He hate pip for a poltroon . snatch the boat - knife from it sheath , he suspend it sharp edg over the line , and turn toward stubb , exclaim interrog , `` cut ? '' meantim pip ' s blue , choke face plainli look , Do , for god ' s sake ! all pass in a flash . In less than half a minut , thi entir thing happen . `` damn him , cut ! '' roar stubb ; and so the whale wa lost and pip wa save . So soon as he recov himself , the poor littl negro wa assail by yell and execr from the crew . tranquilli permit these irregular curs to evapor , stubb then in a plain , busi - like , but still half humor manner , curs pip offici ; and that done , unoffici gave him much wholesom advic . the substanc wa , never jump from a boat , pip , except -- but all the rest wa indefinit , as the soundest advic ever is . now , in gener , stick TO the boat , is your true motto in whale ; but case will sometim happen when leap from the boat , is still better . moreov , as if perceiv at last that if he should give undilut conscienti advic to pip , he would be leav him too wide a margin to jump in for the futur ; stubb suddenli drop all advic , and conclud with a peremptori command , `` stick to the boat , pip , or by the lord , I won ' t pick you up if you jump ; mind that . We can ' t afford to lose whale by the like of you ; a whale would sell for thirti time what you would , pip , in alabama . bear that in mind , and don ' t jump ani more . '' herebi perhap stubb indirectli hint , that though man love hi fellow , yet man is a money - make anim , which propens too often interfer with hi benevol . but we are all in the hand of the god ; and pip jump again . It wa under veri similar circumst to the first perform ; but thi time he did not breast out the line ; and henc , when the whale start to run , pip wa left behind on the sea , like a hurri travel ' s trunk . ala ! stubb wa but too true to hi word . It wa a beauti , bounteou , blue day ; the spangl sea calm and cool , and flatli stretch away , all round , to the horizon , like gold - beater ' s skin hammer out to the extremest . bob up and down in that sea , pip ' s ebon head show like a head of clove . No boat - knife wa lift when he fell so rapidli astern . stubb ' s inexor back wa turn upon him ; and the whale wa wing . In three minut , a whole mile of shoreless ocean wa between pip and stubb . out from the centr of the sea , poor pip turn hi crisp , curl , black head to the sun , anoth lone castaway , though the loftiest and the brightest . now , in calm weather , to swim in the open ocean is as easi to the practis swimmer as to ride in a spring - carriag ashor . but the aw lonesom is intoler . the intens concentr of self in the middl of such a heartless immens , my god ! who can tell it ? mark , how when sailor in a dead calm bath in the open sea -- mark how close they hug their ship and onli coast along her side . but had stubb realli abandon the poor littl negro to hi fate ? No ; he did not mean to , at least . becaus there were two boat in hi wake , and he suppos , no doubt , that they would of cours come up to pip veri quickli , and pick him up ; though , inde , such consider toward oarsmen jeopard through their own timid , is not alway manifest by the hunter in all similar instanc ; and such instanc not unfrequ occur ; almost invari in the fisheri , a coward , so call , is mark with the same ruthless detest peculiar to militari navi and armi . but it so happen , that those boat , without see pip , suddenli spi whale close to them on one side , turn , and gave chase ; and stubb ' s boat wa now so far away , and he and all hi crew so intent upon hi fish , that pip ' s ring horizon began to expand around him miser . By the merest chanc the ship itself at last rescu him ; but from that hour the littl negro went about the deck an idiot ; such , at least , they said he wa . the sea had jeeringli kept hi finit bodi up , but drown the infinit of hi soul . not drown entir , though . rather carri down aliv to wondrou depth , where strang shape of the unwarp primal world glide to and fro befor hi passiv eye ; and the miser - merman , wisdom , reveal hi hoard heap ; and among the joyou , heartless , ever - juvenil etern , pip saw the multitudin , god - omnipres , coral insect , that out of the firmament of water heav the coloss orb . He saw god ' s foot upon the treadl of the loom , and spoke it ; and therefor hi shipmat call him mad . So man ' s insan is heaven ' s sens ; and wander from all mortal reason , man come at last to that celesti thought , which , to reason , is absurd and frantic ; and weal or woe , feel then uncompromis , indiffer as hi god . for the rest , blame not stubb too hardli . the thing is common in that fisheri ; and in the sequel of the narr , it will then be seen what like abandon befel myself . chapter 94 A squeez of the hand . that whale of stubb ' s , so dearli purchas , wa duli brought to the pequod ' s side , where all those cut and hoist oper previous detail , were regularli gone through , even to the bale of the heidelburgh tun , or case . while some were occupi with thi latter duti , other were employ in drag away the larger tub , so soon as fill with the sperm ; and when the proper time arriv , thi same sperm wa care manipul ere go to the tri - work , of which anon . It had cool and crystal to such a degre , that when , with sever other , I sat down befor a larg constantin ' s bath of it , I found it strang concret into lump , here and there roll about in the liquid part . It wa our busi to squeez these lump back into fluid . A sweet and unctuou duti ! No wonder that in old time thi sperm wa such a favourit cosmet . such a clearer ! such a sweeten ! such a soften ! such a delici molifi ! after have my hand in it for onli a few minut , my finger felt like eel , and began , as it were , to serpentin and spiralis . As I sat there at my eas , cross - leg on the deck ; after the bitter exert at the windlass ; under a blue tranquil sky ; the ship under indol sail , and glide so seren along ; as I bath my hand among those soft , gentl globul of infiltr tissu , woven almost within the hour ; as they richli broke to my finger , and discharg all their opul , like fulli ripe grape their wine ; as I snuf up that uncontamin aroma , -- liter and truli , like the smell of spring violet ; I declar to you , that for the time I live as in a muski meadow ; I forgot all about our horribl oath ; in that inexpress sperm , I wash my hand and my heart of it ; I almost began to credit the old paracelsan superstit that sperm is of rare virtu in allay the heat of anger ; while bath in that bath , I felt divin free from all ill - will , or petul , or malic , of ani sort whatsoev . squeez ! squeez ! squeez ! all the morn long ; I squeez that sperm till I myself almost melt into it ; I squeez that sperm till a strang sort of insan came over me ; and I found myself unwittingli squeez my co - labor ' hand in it , mistak their hand for the gentl globul . such an abound , affection , friendli , love feel did thi avoc beget ; that at last I wa continu squeez their hand , and look up into their eye sentiment ; as much as to say , -- Oh ! my dear fellow be , whi should we longer cherish ani social acerb , or know the slightest ill - humor or envi ! come ; let us squeez hand all round ; nay , let us all squeez ourselv into each other ; let us squeez ourselv univers into the veri milk and sperm of kind . would that I could keep squeez that sperm for ever ! for now , sinc by mani prolong , repeat experi , I have perceiv that in all case man must eventu lower , or at least shift , hi conceit of attain felic ; not place it anywher in the intellect or the fanci ; but in the wife , the heart , the bed , the tabl , the saddl , the firesid , the countri ; now that I have perceiv all thi , I am readi to squeez case etern . In thought of the vision of the night , I saw long row of angel in paradis , each with hi hand in a jar of spermaceti . now , while discours of sperm , it behoov to speak of other thing akin to it , in the busi of prepar the sperm whale for the tri - work . first come white - hors , so call , which is obtain from the taper part of the fish , and also from the thicker portion of hi fluke . It is tough with congeal tendon -- a wad of muscl -- but still contain some oil . after be sever from the whale , the white - hors is first cut into portabl oblong ere go to the mincer . they look much like block of berkshir marbl . plum - pud is the term bestow upon certain fragmentari part of the whale ' s flesh , here and there adher to the blanket of blubber , and often particip to a consider degre in it unctuous . It is a most refresh , convivi , beauti object to behold . As it name import , it is of an exceedingli rich , mottl tint , with a bestreak snowi and golden ground , dot with spot of the deepest crimson and purpl . It is plum of rubi , in pictur of citron . spite of reason , it is hard to keep yourself from eat it . I confess , that onc I stole behind the foremast to tri it . It tast someth as I should conceiv a royal cutlet from the thigh of loui le gro might have tast , suppos him to have been kill the first day after the venison season , and that particular venison season contemporari with an unusu fine vintag of the vineyard of champagn . there is anoth substanc , and a veri singular one , which turn up in the cours of thi busi , but which I feel it to be veri puzzl adequ to describ . It is call slobgollion ; an appel origin with the whalemen , and even so is the natur of the substanc . It is an ineff oozi , stringi affair , most frequent found in the tub of sperm , after a prolong squeez , and subsequ decant . I hold it to be the wondrous thin , ruptur membran of the case , coalesc . gurri , so call , is a term properli belong to right whalemen , but sometim incident use by the sperm fishermen . It design the dark , glutin substanc which is scrape off the back of the greenland or right whale , and much of which cover the deck of those inferior soul who hunt that ignobl leviathan . nipper . strictli thi word is not indigen to the whale ' s vocabulari . but as appli by whalemen , it becom so . A whaleman ' s nipper is a short firm strip of tendin stuff cut from the taper part of leviathan ' s tail : it averag an inch in thick , and for the rest , is about the size of the iron part of a hoe . edgewis move along the oili deck , it oper like a leathern squilge ; and by nameless blandish , as of magic , allur along with it all impur . but to learn all about these recondit matter , your best way is at onc to descend into the blubber - room , and have a long talk with it inmat . thi place ha previous been mention as the receptacl for the blanket - piec , when stript and hoist from the whale . when the proper time arriv for cut up it content , thi apart is a scene of terror to all tyro , especi by night . On one side , lit by a dull lantern , a space ha been left clear for the workmen . they gener go in pair , -- a pike - and - gaffman and a spade - man . the whale - pike is similar to a frigat ' s board - weapon of the same name . the gaff is someth like a boat - hook . with hi gaff , the gaffman hook on to a sheet of blubber , and strive to hold it from slip , as the ship pitch and lurch about . meanwhil , the spade - man stand on the sheet itself , perpendicularli chop it into the portabl hors - piec . thi spade is sharp as hone can make it ; the spademan ' s feet are shoeless ; the thing he stand on will sometim irresist slide away from him , like a sledg . If he cut off one of hi own toe , or one of hi assist ' , would you be veri much astonish ? toe are scarc among veteran blubber - room men . chapter 95 the cassock . had you step on board the pequod at a certain junctur of thi post - mortem of the whale ; and had you stroll forward nigh the windlass , pretti sure am I that you would have scan with no small curios a veri strang , enigmat object , which you would have seen there , lie along lengthwis in the lee scupper . not the wondrou cistern in the whale ' s huge head ; not the prodigi of hi unhing lower jaw ; not the miracl of hi symmetr tail ; none of these would so surpris you , as half a glimps of that unaccount cone , -- longer than a kentuckian is tall , nigh a foot in diamet at the base , and jet - black as yojo , the eboni idol of queequeg . and an idol , inde , it is ; or , rather , in old time , it like wa . such an idol as that found in the secret grove of queen maachah in judea ; and for worship which , king asa , her son , did depos her , and destroy the idol , and burnt it for an abomin at the brook kedron , as darkli set forth in the 15th chapter of the first book of king . look at the sailor , call the mincer , who now come along , and assist by two alli , heavili back the grandissimu , as the marin call it , and with bow shoulder , stagger off with it as if he were a grenadi carri a dead comrad from the field . extend it upon the forecastl deck , he now proce cylindr to remov it dark pelt , as an african hunter the pelt of a boa . thi done he turn the pelt insid out , like a pantaloon leg ; give it a good stretch , so as almost to doubl it diamet ; and at last hang it , well spread , in the rig , to dri . ere long , it is taken down ; when remov some three feet of it , toward the point extrem , and then cut two slit for arm - hole at the other end , he lengthwis slip himself bodili into it . the mincer now stand befor you invest in the full canon of hi call . immemori to all hi order , thi investitur alon will adequ protect him , while employ in the peculiar function of hi offic . that offic consist in minc the hors - piec of blubber for the pot ; an oper which is conduct at a curiou wooden hors , plant endwis against the bulwark , and with a capaci tub beneath it , into which the minc piec drop , fast as the sheet from a rapt orat ' s desk . array in decent black ; occupi a conspicu pulpit ; intent on bibl leav ; what a candid for an archbishopr , what a lad for a pope were thi mincer ! * * bibl leav ! bibl leav ! thi is the invari cri from the mate to the mincer . It enjoin him to be care , and cut hi work into as thin slice as possibl , inasmuch as by so do the busi of boil out the oil is much acceler , and it quantiti consider increas , besid perhap improv it in qualiti . chapter 96 the tri - work . besid her hoist boat , an american whaler is outwardli distinguish by her tri - work . she present the curiou anomali of the most solid masonri join with oak and hemp in constitut the complet ship . It is as if from the open field a brick - kiln were transport to her plank . the tri - work are plant between the foremast and mainmast , the most roomi part of the deck . the timber beneath are of a peculiar strength , fit to sustain the weight of an almost solid mass of brick and mortar , some ten feet by eight squar , and five in height . the foundat doe not penetr the deck , but the masonri is firmli secur to the surfac by ponder knee of iron brace it on all side , and screw it down to the timber . On the flank it is case with wood , and at top complet cover by a larg , slope , batten hatchway . remov thi hatch we expos the great tri - pot , two in number , and each of sever barrel ' capac . when not in use , they are kept remark clean . sometim they are polish with soapston and sand , till they shine within like silver punch - bowl . dure the night - watch some cynic old sailor will crawl into them and coil themselv away there for a nap . while employ in polish them -- one man in each pot , side by side -- mani confidenti commun are carri on , over the iron lip . It is a place also for profound mathemat medit . It wa in the left hand tri - pot of the pequod , with the soapston dilig circl round me , that I wa first indirectli struck by the remark fact , that in geometri all bodi glide along the cycloid , my soapston for exampl , will descend from ani point in precis the same time . remov the fire - board from the front of the tri - work , the bare masonri of that side is expos , penetr by the two iron mouth of the furnac , directli underneath the pot . these mouth are fit with heavi door of iron . the intens heat of the fire is prevent from commun itself to the deck , by mean of a shallow reservoir extend under the entir inclos surfac of the work . By a tunnel insert at the rear , thi reservoir is kept replenish with water as fast as it evapor . there are no extern chimney ; they open direct from the rear wall . and here let us go back for a moment . It wa about nine o ' clock at night that the pequod ' s tri - work were first start on thi present voyag . It belong to stubb to overse the busi . `` all readi there ? off hatch , then , and start her . you cook , fire the work . '' thi wa an easi thing , for the carpent had been thrust hi shave into the furnac throughout the passag . here be it said that in a whale voyag the first fire in the tri - work ha to be fed for a time with wood . after that no wood is use , except as a mean of quick ignit to the stapl fuel . In a word , after be tri out , the crisp , shrivel blubber , now call scrap or fritter , still contain consider of it unctuou properti . these fritter feed the flame . like a plethor burn martyr , or a self - consum misanthrop , onc ignit , the whale suppli hi own fuel and burn by hi own bodi . would that he consum hi own smoke ! for hi smoke is horribl to inhal , and inhal it you must , and not onli that , but you must live in it for the time . It ha an unspeak , wild , hindoo odor about it , such as may lurk in the vicin of funer pyre . It smell like the left wing of the day of judgment ; it is an argument for the pit . By midnight the work were in full oper . We were clear from the carcas ; sail had been made ; the wind wa freshen ; the wild ocean dark wa intens . but that dark wa lick up by the fierc flame , which at interv fork forth from the sooti flue , and illumin everi lofti rope in the rig , as with the fame greek fire . the burn ship drove on , as if remorselessli commiss to some veng deed . So the pitch and sulphur - freight brig of the bold hydriot , canari , issu from their midnight harbor , with broad sheet of flame for sail , bore down upon the turkish frigat , and fold them in conflagr . the hatch , remov from the top of the work , now afford a wide hearth in front of them . stand on thi were the tartarean shape of the pagan harpoon , alway the whale - ship ' s stoker . with huge prong pole they pitch hiss mass of blubber into the scald pot , or stir up the fire beneath , till the snaki flame dart , curl , out of the door to catch them by the feet . the smoke roll away in sullen heap . To everi pitch of the ship there wa a pitch of the boil oil , which seem all eager to leap into their face . opposit the mouth of the work , on the further side of the wide wooden hearth , wa the windlass . thi serv for a sea - sofa . here loung the watch , when not otherwis employ , look into the red heat of the fire , till their eye felt scorch in their head . their tawni featur , now all begrim with smoke and sweat , their mat beard , and the contrast barbar brillianc of their teeth , all these were strang reveal in the caprici emblazon of the work . As they narrat to each other their unholi adventur , their tale of terror told in word of mirth ; as their uncivil laughter fork upward out of them , like the flame from the furnac ; as to and fro , in their front , the harpoon wildli gesticul with their huge prong fork and dipper ; as the wind howl on , and the sea leap , and the ship groan and dive , and yet steadfastli shot her red hell further and further into the black of the sea and the night , and scorn champ the white bone in her mouth , and vicious spat round her on all side ; then the rush pequod , freight with savag , and laden with fire , and burn a corps , and plung into that black of dark , seem the materi counterpart of her monomaniac command ' s soul . So seem it to me , as I stood at her helm , and for long hour silent guid the way of thi fire - ship on the sea . wrap , for that interv , in dark myself , I but the better saw the red , the mad , the ghastli of other . the continu sight of the fiend shape befor me , caper half in smoke and half in fire , these at last begat kindr vision in my soul , so soon as I began to yield to that unaccount drowsi which ever would come over me at a midnight helm . but that night , in particular , a strang ( and ever sinc inexplic ) thing occur to me . start from a brief stand sleep , I wa horribl consciou of someth fatal wrong . the jaw - bone tiller smote my side , which lean against it ; in my ear wa the low hum of sail , just begin to shake in the wind ; I thought my eye were open ; I wa half consciou of put my finger to the lid and mechan stretch them still further apart . but , spite of all thi , I could see no compass befor me to steer by ; though it seem but a minut sinc I had been watch the card , by the steadi binnacl lamp illumin it . noth seem befor me but a jet gloom , now and then made ghastli by flash of red . uppermost wa the impress , that whatev swift , rush thing I stood on wa not so much bound to ani haven ahead as rush from all haven astern . A stark , bewild feel , as of death , came over me . convuls my hand grasp the tiller , but with the crazi conceit that the tiller wa , somehow , in some enchant way , invert . My god ! what is the matter with me ? thought I . Lo ! in my brief sleep I had turn myself about , and wa front the ship ' s stern , with my back to her prow and the compass . In an instant I face back , just in time to prevent the vessel from fli up into the wind , and veri probabl capsiz her . how glad and how grate the relief from thi unnatur hallucin of the night , and the fatal conting of be brought by the lee ! look not too long in the face of the fire , O man ! never dream with thi hand on the helm ! turn not thi back to the compass ; accept the first hint of the hitch tiller ; believ not the artifici fire , when it red make all thing look ghastli . To - morrow , in the natur sun , the sky will be bright ; those who glare like devil in the fork flame , the morn will show in far other , at least gentler , relief ; the gloriou , golden , glad sun , the onli true lamp -- all other but liar ! nevertheless the sun hide not virginia ' s dismal swamp , nor rome ' s accurs campagna , nor wide sahara , nor all the million of mile of desert and of grief beneath the moon . the sun hide not the ocean , which is the dark side of thi earth , and which is two third of thi earth . So , therefor , that mortal man who hath more of joy than sorrow in him , that mortal man can not be true -- not true , or undevelop . with book the same . the truest of all men wa the man of sorrow , and the truest of all book is solomon ' s , and ecclesiast is the fine hammer steel of woe . `` all is vaniti . '' all . thi wil world hath not got hold of unchristian solomon ' s wisdom yet . but he who dodg hospit and jail , and walk fast cross graveyard , and would rather talk of opera than hell ; call cowper , young , pascal , rousseau , poor devil all of sick men ; and throughout a care - free lifetim swear by rabelai as pass wise , and therefor jolli ; -- not that man is fit to sit down on tomb - stone , and break the green damp mould with unfathom wondrou solomon . but even solomon , he say , `` the man that wandereth out of the way of understand shall remain `` ( I . E . , even while live ) `` in the congreg of the dead . '' give not thyself up , then , to fire , lest it invert thee , deaden thee ; as for the time it did me . there is a wisdom that is woe ; but there is a woe that is mad . and there is a catskil eagl in some soul that can alik dive down into the blackest gorg , and soar out of them again and becom invis in the sunni space . and even if he for ever fli within the gorg , that gorg is in the mountain ; so that even in hi lowest swoop the mountain eagl is still higher than other bird upon the plain , even though they soar . chapter 97 the lamp . had you descend from the pequod ' s tri - work to the pequod ' s forecastl , where the off duti watch were sleep , for one singl moment you would have almost thought you were stand in some illumin shrine of canon king and counsellor . there they lay in their triangular oaken vault , each marin a chisel mute ; a score of lamp flash upon hi hood eye . In merchantmen , oil for the sailor is more scarc than the milk of queen . To dress in the dark , and eat in the dark , and stumbl in dark to hi pallet , thi is hi usual lot . but the whaleman , as he seek the food of light , so he live in light . He make hi berth an aladdin ' s lamp , and lay him down in it ; so that in the pitchiest night the ship ' s black hull still hous an illumin . see with what entir freedom the whaleman take hi hand of lamp -- often but old bottl and vial , though -- to the copper cooler at the tri - work , and replenish them there , as mug of ale at a vat . He burn , too , the purest of oil , in it unmanufactur , and , therefor , unviti state ; a fluid unknown to solar , lunar , or astral contriv ashor . It is sweet as earli grass butter in april . He goe and hunt for hi oil , so as to be sure of it fresh and genuin , even as the travel on the prairi hunt up hi own supper of game . chapter 98 stow down and clear Up . alreadi ha it been relat how the great leviathan is afar off descri from the mast - head ; how he is chase over the wateri moor , and slaughter in the valley of the deep ; how he is then tow alongsid and behead ; and how ( on the principl which entitl the headsman of old to the garment in which the behead wa kill ) hi great pad surtout becom the properti of hi execution ; how , in due time , he is condemn to the pot , and , like shadrach , meshach , and abednego , hi spermaceti , oil , and bone pass unscath through the fire ; -- but now it remain to conclud the last chapter of thi part of the descript by rehears -- sing , if I may -- the romant proceed of decant off hi oil into the cask and strike them down into the hold , where onc again leviathan return to hi nativ profund , slide along beneath the surfac as befor ; but , ala ! never more to rise and blow . while still warm , the oil , like hot punch , is receiv into the six - barrel cask ; and while , perhap , the ship is pitch and roll thi way and that in the midnight sea , the enorm cask are slew round and head over , end for end , and sometim peril scoot across the slipperi deck , like so mani land slide , till at last man - handl and stay in their cours ; and all round the hoop , rap , rap , go as mani hammer as can play upon them , for now , EX officio , everi sailor is a cooper . At length , when the last pint is cask , and all is cool , then the great hatchway are unseal , the bowel of the ship are thrown open , and down go the cask to their final rest in the sea . thi done , the hatch are replac , and hermet close , like a closet wall up . In the sperm fisheri , thi is perhap one of the most remark incid in all the busi of whale . one day the plank stream with freshet of blood and oil ; on the sacr quarter - deck enorm mass of the whale ' s head are profan pile ; great rusti cask lie about , as in a breweri yard ; the smoke from the tri - work ha besoot all the bulwark ; the marin go about suffus with unctuous ; the entir ship seem great leviathan himself ; while on all hand the din is deafen . but a day or two after , you look about you , and prick your ear in thi self - same ship ; and were it not for the tell - tale boat and tri - work , you would all but swear you trod some silent merchant vessel , with a most scrupul neat command . the unmanufactur sperm oil possess a singularli cleans virtu . thi is the reason whi the deck never look so white as just after what they call an affair of oil . besid , from the ash of the burn scrap of the whale , a potent lye is readili made ; and whenev ani adhes from the back of the whale remain cling to the side , that lye quickli extermin it . hand go dilig along the bulwark , and with bucket of water and rag restor them to their full tidi . the soot is brush from the lower rig . all the numer implement which have been in use are likewis faith cleans and put away . the great hatch is scrub and place upon the tri - work , complet hide the pot ; everi cask is out of sight ; all tackl are coil in unseen nook ; and when by the combin and simultan industri of almost the entir ship ' s compani , the whole of thi conscienti duti is at last conclud , then the crew themselv proceed to their own ablut ; shift themselv from top to toe ; and final issu to the immacul deck , fresh and all aglow , as bridegroom new - leap from out the daintiest holland . now , with elat step , they pace the plank in two and three , and humor discours of parlor , sofa , carpet , and fine cambric ; propos to mat the deck ; think of have hang to the top ; object not to take tea by moonlight on the piazza of the forecastl . To hint to such musk marin of oil , and bone , and blubber , were littl short of audac . they know not the thing you distantli allud to . away , and bring us napkin ! but mark : aloft there , at the three mast head , stand three men intent on spi out more whale , which , if caught , infal will again soil the old oaken furnitur , and drop at least one small greas - spot somewher . ye ; and mani is the time , when , after the severest uninterrupt labor , which know no night ; continu straight through for nineti - six hour ; when from the boat , where they have swell their wrist with all day row on the line , -- they onli step to the deck to carri vast chain , and heav the heavi windlass , and cut and slash , yea , and in their veri sweat to be smoke and burn anew by the combin fire of the equatori sun and the equatori tri - work ; when , on the heel of all thi , they have final bestir themselv to cleans the ship , and make a spotless dairi room of it ; mani is the time the poor fellow , just button the neck of their clean frock , are startl by the cri of `` there she blow ! '' and away they fli to fight anoth whale , and go through the whole weari thing again . Oh ! my friend , but thi is man - kill ! yet thi is life . for hardli have we mortal by long toil extract from thi world ' s vast bulk it small but valuabl sperm ; and then , with weari patienc , cleans ourselv from it defil , and learn to live here in clean tabernacl of the soul ; hardli is thi done , when -- there she blow ! -- the ghost is spout up , and away we sail to fight some other world , and go through young life ' s old routin again . Oh ! the metempsychosi ! Oh ! pythagora , that in bright greec , two thousand year ago , did die , so good , so wise , so mild ; I sail with thee along the peruvian coast last voyag -- and , foolish as I am , taught thee , a green simpl boy , how to splice a rope ! chapter 99 the doubloon . ere now it ha been relat how ahab wa wont to pace hi quarter - deck , take regular turn at either limit , the binnacl and mainmast ; but in the multipl of other thing requir narrat it ha not been ad how that sometim in these walk , when most plung in hi mood , he wa wont to paus in turn at each spot , and stand there strang eye the particular object befor him . when he halt befor the binnacl , with hi glanc fasten on the point needl in the compass , that glanc shot like a javelin with the point intens of hi purpos ; and when resum hi walk he again paus befor the mainmast , then , as the same rivet glanc fasten upon the rivet gold coin there , he still wore the same aspect of nail firm , onli dash with a certain wild long , if not hope . but one morn , turn to pass the doubloon , he seem to be newli attract by the strang figur and inscript stamp on it , as though now for the first time begin to interpret for himself in some monomaniac way whatev signific might lurk in them . and some certain signific lurk in all thing , els all thing are littl worth , and the round world itself but an empti cipher , except to sell by the cartload , as they do hill about boston , to fill up some morass in the milki way . now thi doubloon wa of purest , virgin gold , rake somewher out of the heart of gorgeou hill , whenc , east and west , over golden sand , the head - water of mani a pactolu flow . and though now nail amidst all the rusti of iron bolt and the verdigri of copper spike , yet , untouch and immacul to ani foul , it still preserv it quito glow . nor , though place amongst a ruthless crew and everi hour pass by ruthless hand , and through the livelong night shroud with thick dark which might cover ani pilfer approach , nevertheless everi sunris found the doubloon where the sunset left it last . for it wa set apart and sanctifi to one awe - strike end ; and howev wanton in their sailor way , one and all , the marin rever it as the white whale ' s talisman . sometim they talk it over in the weari watch by night , wonder whose it wa to be at last , and whether he would ever live to spend it . now those nobl golden coin of south america are as medal of the sun and tropic token - piec . here palm , alpaca , and volcano ; sun ' s disk and star ; eclipt , horn - of - plenti , and rich banner wave , are in luxuri profus stamp ; so that the preciou gold seem almost to deriv an ad precious and enhanc glori , by pass through those fanci mint , so spanishli poetic . It so chanc that the doubloon of the pequod wa a most wealthi exampl of these thing . On it round border it bore the letter , republica del ecuador : quito . So thi bright coin came from a countri plant in the middl of the world , and beneath the great equat , and name after it ; and it had been cast midway up the and , in the unwan clime that know no autumn . zone by those letter you saw the like of three and ' summit ; from one a flame ; a tower on anoth ; on the third a crow cock ; while arch over all wa a segment of the partit zodiac , the sign all mark with their usual cabalist , and the keyston sun enter the equinocti point at libra . befor thi equatori coin , ahab , not unobserv by other , wa now paus . `` there ' s someth ever egotist in mountain - top and tower , and all other grand and lofti thing ; look here , -- three peak as proud as lucif . the firm tower , that is ahab ; the volcano , that is ahab ; the courag , the undaunt , and victori fowl , that , too , is ahab ; all are ahab ; and thi round gold is but the imag of the rounder globe , which , like a magician ' s glass , to each and everi man in turn but mirror back hi own mysteri self . great pain , small gain for those who ask the world to solv them ; it can not solv itself . methink now thi coin sun wear a ruddi face ; but see ! aye , he enter the sign of storm , the equinox ! and but six month befor he wheel out of a former equinox at ari ! from storm to storm ! So be it , then . born in throe , ' t is fit that man should live in pain and die in pang ! So be it , then ! here ' s stout stuff for woe to work on . So be it , then . '' `` No fairi finger can have press the gold , but devil ' s claw must have left their mould there sinc yesterday , '' murmur starbuck to himself , lean against the bulwark . `` the old man seem to read belshazzar ' s aw write . I have never mark the coin inspectingli . He goe below ; let me read . A dark valley between three mighti , heaven - abid peak , that almost seem the triniti , in some faint earthli symbol . So in thi vale of death , god gird us round ; and over all our gloom , the sun of righteous still shine a beacon and a hope . If we bend down our eye , the dark vale show her mouldi soil ; but if we lift them , the bright sun meet our glanc half way , to cheer . yet , oh , the great sun is no fixtur ; and if , at midnight , we would fain snatch some sweet solac from him , we gaze for him in vain ! thi coin speak wise , mildli , truli , but still sadli to me . I will quit it , lest truth shake me fals . '' `` there now ' s the old mogul , '' soliloqu stubb by the tri - work , `` he ' s been twig it ; and there goe starbuck from the same , and both with face which I should say might be somewher within nine fathom long . and all from look at a piec of gold , which did I have it now on negro hill or in corlaer ' s hook , I ' d not look at it veri long ere spend it . humph ! in my poor , insignific opinion , I regard thi as queer . I have seen doubloon befor now in my voyag ; your doubloon of old spain , your doubloon of peru , your doubloon of chili , your doubloon of bolivia , your doubloon of popayan ; with plenti of gold moidor and pistol , and joe , and half joe , and quarter joe . what then should there be in thi doubloon of the equat that is so kill wonder ? By golconda ! let me read it onc . halloa ! here ' s sign and wonder truli ! that , now , is what old bowditch in hi epitom call the zodiac , and what my almanac below call ditto . I ' ll get the almanac and as I have heard devil can be rais with dabol ' s arithmet , I ' ll tri my hand at rais a mean out of these queer curvicu here with the massachusett calendar . here ' s the book . let ' s see now . sign and wonder ; and the sun , he ' s alway among ' em . hem , hem , hem ; here they are -- here they go -- all aliv : -- ari , or the ram ; tauru , or the bull and jimimi ! here ' s gemini himself , or the twin . well ; the sun he wheel among ' em . aye , here on the coin he ' s just cross the threshold between two of twelv sit - room all in a ring . book ! you lie there ; the fact is , you book must know your place . you ' ll do to give us the bare word and fact , but we come in to suppli the thought . that ' s my small experi , so far as the massachusett calendar , and bowditch ' s navig , and dabol ' s arithmet go . sign and wonder , eh ? piti if there is noth wonder in sign , and signific in wonder ! there ' s a clue somewher ; wait a bit ; hist -- hark ! By jove , I have it ! look you , doubloon , your zodiac here is the life of man in one round chapter ; and now I ' ll read it off , straight out of the book . come , almanack ! To begin : there ' s ari , or the ram -- lecher dog , he beget us ; then , tauru , or the bull -- he bump us the first thing ; then gemini , or the twin -- that is , virtu and vice ; we tri to reach virtu , when lo ! come cancer the crab , and drag us back ; and here , go from virtu , leo , a roar lion , lie in the path -- he give a few fierc bite and surli dab with hi paw ; we escap , and hail virgo , the virgin ! that ' s our first love ; we marri and think to be happi for aye , when pop come libra , or the scale -- happi weigh and found want ; and while we are veri sad about that , lord ! how we suddenli jump , as scorpio , or the scorpion , sting us in the rear ; we are cure the wound , when whang come the arrow all round ; sagittariu , or the archer , is amus himself . As we pluck out the shaft , stand asid ! here ' s the batter - ram , capricornu , or the goat ; full tilt , he come rush , and headlong we are toss ; when aquariu , or the water - bearer , pour out hi whole delug and drown us ; and to wind up with pisc , or the fish , we sleep . there ' s a sermon now , writ in high heaven , and the sun goe through it everi year , and yet come out of it all aliv and hearti . jollili he , aloft there , wheel through toil and troubl ; and so , alow here , doe jolli stubb . Oh , jolli ' s the word for aye ! adieu , doubloon ! but stop ; here come littl king - post ; dodg round the tri - work , now , and let ' s hear what he ' ll have to say . there ; he ' s befor it ; he ' ll out with someth present . So , so ; he ' s begin . '' `` I see noth here , but a round thing made of gold , and whoever rais a certain whale , thi round thing belong to him . So , what ' s all thi stare been about ? It is worth sixteen dollar , that ' s true ; and at two cent the cigar , that ' s nine hundr and sixti cigar . I won ' t smoke dirti pipe like stubb , but I like cigar , and here ' s nine hundr and sixti of them ; so here goe flask aloft to spi ' em out . '' `` shall I call that wise or foolish , now ; if it be realli wise it ha a foolish look to it ; yet , if it be realli foolish , then ha it a sort of wiseish look to it . but , avast ; here come our old manxman -- the old hears - driver , he must have been , that is , befor he took to the sea . He luff up befor the doubloon ; halloa , and goe round on the other side of the mast ; whi , there ' s a hors - shoe nail on that side ; and now he ' s back again ; what doe that mean ? hark ! he ' s mutter -- voic like an old worn - out coffe - mill . prick ear , and listen ! '' `` If the white whale be rais , it must be in a month and a day , when the sun stand in some one of these sign . I ' ve studi sign , and know their mark ; they were taught me two score year ago , by the old witch in copenhagen . now , in what sign will the sun then be ? the hors - shoe sign ; for there it is , right opposit the gold . and what ' s the hors - shoe sign ? the lion is the hors - shoe sign -- the roar and devour lion . ship , old ship ! my old head shake to think of thee . '' `` there ' s anoth render now ; but still one text . all sort of men in one kind of world , you see . dodg again ! here come queequeg -- all tattoo -- look like the sign of the zodiac himself . what say the cannib ? As I live he ' s compar note ; look at hi thigh bone ; think the sun is in the thigh , or in the calf , or in the bowel , I suppos , as the old women talk surgeon ' s astronomi in the back countri . and by jove , he ' s found someth there in the vicin of hi thigh -- I guess it ' s sagittariu , or the archer . No : he don ' t know what to make of the doubloon ; he take it for an old button off some king ' s trowser . but , asid again ! here come that ghost - devil , fedallah ; tail coil out of sight as usual , oakum in the toe of hi pump as usual . what doe he say , with that look of hi ? Ah , onli make a sign to the sign and bow himself ; there is a sun on the coin -- fire worshipp , depend upon it . Ho ! more and more . thi way come pip -- poor boy ! would he had die , or I ; he ' s half horribl to me . He too ha been watch all of these interpret -- myself includ -- and look now , he come to read , with that unearthli idiot face . stand away again and hear him . hark ! '' `` I look , you look , he look ; we look , ye look , they look . '' `` upon my soul , he ' s been studi murray ' s grammar ! improv hi mind , poor fellow ! but what ' s that he say now -- hist ! '' `` I look , you look , he look ; we look , ye look , they look . '' `` whi , he ' s get it by heart -- hist ! again . '' `` I look , you look , he look ; we look , ye look , they look . '' `` well , that ' s funni . '' `` and I , you , and he ; and we , ye , and they , are all bat ; and I ' m a crow , especi when I stand a ' top of thi pine tree here . caw ! caw ! caw ! caw ! caw ! caw ! ain ' t I a crow ? and where ' s the scare - crow ? there he stand ; two bone stuck into a pair of old trowser , and two more poke into the sleev of an old jacket . '' `` wonder if he mean me ? -- complimentari ! -- poor lad ! -- I could go hang myself . ani way , for the present , I ' ll quit pip ' s vicin . I can stand the rest , for they have plain wit ; but he ' s too crazi - witti for my saniti . So , so , I leav him mutter . '' `` here ' s the ship ' s navel , thi doubloon here , and they are all on fire to unscrew it . but , unscrew your navel , and what ' s the consequ ? then again , if it stay here , that is ugli , too , for when aught ' s nail to the mast it ' s a sign that thing grow desper . Ha , ha ! old ahab ! the white whale ; he ' ll nail ye ! thi is a pine tree . My father , in old tolland counti , cut down a pine tree onc , and found a silver ring grown over in it ; some old darkey ' s wed ring . how did it get there ? and so they ' ll say in the resurrect , when they come to fish up thi old mast , and find a doubloon lodg in it , with bed oyster for the shaggi bark . Oh , the gold ! the preciou , preciou , gold ! the green miser ' ll hoard ye soon ! hish ! hish ! god goe ' mong the world blackberri . cook ! ho , cook ! and cook us ! jenni ! hey , hey , hey , hey , hey , jenni , jenni ! and get your hoe - cake done ! '' chapter 100 leg and arm . the pequod , of nantucket , meet the samuel enderbi , of london . `` ship , ahoy ! hast seen the white whale ? '' So cri ahab , onc more hail a ship show english colour , bear down under the stern . trumpet to mouth , the old man wa stand in hi hoist quarter - boat , hi ivori leg plainli reveal to the stranger captain , who wa carelessli reclin in hi own boat ' s bow . He wa a darkli - tan , burli , good - natur , fine - look man , of sixti or thereabout , dress in a spaciou roundabout , that hung round him in festoon of blue pilot - cloth ; and one empti arm of thi jacket stream behind him like the broider arm of a hussar ' s surcoat . `` hast seen the white whale ! '' `` see you thi ? '' and withdraw it from the fold that had hidden it , he held up a white arm of sperm whale bone , termin in a wooden head like a mallet . `` man my boat ! '' cri ahab , impetu , and toss about the oar near him -- '' stand by to lower ! '' In less than a minut , without quit hi littl craft , he and hi crew were drop to the water , and were soon alongsid of the stranger . but here a curiou difficulti present itself . In the excit of the moment , ahab had forgotten that sinc the loss of hi leg he had never onc step on board of ani vessel at sea but hi own , and then it wa alway by an ingeni and veri handi mechan contriv peculiar to the pequod , and a thing not to be rig and ship in ani other vessel at a moment ' s warn . now , it is no veri easi matter for anybodi -- except those who are almost hourli use to it , like whalemen -- to clamber up a ship ' s side from a boat on the open sea ; for the great swell now lift the boat high up toward the bulwark , and then instantan drop it half way down to the kelson . So , depriv of one leg , and the strang ship of cours be altogeth unsuppli with the kindli invent , ahab now found himself abjectli reduc to a clumsi landsman again ; hopelessli eye the uncertain chang height he could hardli hope to attain . It ha befor been hint , perhap , that everi littl untoward circumst that befel him , and which indirectli sprang from hi luckless mishap , almost invari irrit or exasper ahab . and in the present instanc , all thi wa heighten by the sight of the two offic of the strang ship , lean over the side , by the perpendicular ladder of nail cleet there , and swing toward him a pair of tast - ornament man - rope ; for at first they did not seem to bethink them that a one - leg man must be too much of a crippl to use their sea bannist . but thi awkward onli last a minut , becaus the strang captain , observ at a glanc how affair stood , cri out , `` I see , I see ! -- avast heav there ! jump , boy , and swing over the cut - tackl . '' As good luck would have it , they had had a whale alongsid a day or two previou , and the great tackl were still aloft , and the massiv curv blubber - hook , now clean and dri , wa still attach to the end . thi wa quickli lower to ahab , who at onc comprehend it all , slid hi solitari thigh into the curv of the hook ( it wa like sit in the fluke of an anchor , or the crotch of an appl tree ) , and then give the word , held himself fast , and at the same time also help to hoist hi own weight , by pull hand - over - hand upon one of the run part of the tackl . soon he wa care swung insid the high bulwark , and gentli land upon the capstan head . with hi ivori arm frankli thrust forth in welcom , the other captain advanc , and ahab , put out hi ivori leg , and cross the ivori arm ( like two sword - fish blade ) cri out in hi walru way , `` aye , aye , hearti ! let us shake bone togeth ! -- an arm and a leg ! -- an arm that never can shrink , d ' ye see ; and a leg that never can run . where did ' st thou see the white whale ? -- how long ago ? '' `` the white whale , '' said the englishman , point hi ivori arm toward the east , and take a rueful sight along it , as if it had been a telescop ; `` there I saw him , on the line , last season . '' `` and he took that arm off , did he ? '' ask ahab , now slide down from the capstan , and rest on the englishman ' s shoulder , as he did so . `` aye , he wa the caus of it , at least ; and that leg , too ? '' `` spin me the yarn , '' said ahab ; `` how wa it ? '' `` It wa the first time in my life that I ever cruis on the line , '' began the englishman . `` I wa ignor of the white whale at that time . well , one day we lower for a pod of four or five whale , and my boat fasten to one of them ; a regular circu hors he wa , too , that went mill and mill round so , that my boat ' s crew could onli trim dish , by sit all their stern on the outer gunwal . present up breach from the bottom of the sea a bounc great whale , with a milki - white head and hump , all crow ' feet and wrinkl . '' `` It wa he , it wa he ! '' cri ahab , suddenli let out hi suspend breath . `` and harpoon stick in near hi starboard fin . '' `` aye , aye -- they were mine -- MY iron , '' cri ahab , exultingli -- '' but on ! '' `` give me a chanc , then , '' said the englishman , good - humoredli . `` well , thi old great - grandfath , with the white head and hump , run all afoam into the pod , and goe to snap furious at my fast - line ! `` aye , I see ! -- want to part it ; free the fast - fish -- an old trick -- I know him . '' `` how it wa exactli , '' continu the one - arm command , `` I do not know ; but in bite the line , it got foul of hi teeth , caught there somehow ; but we didn ' t know it then ; so that when we afterward pull on the line , bounc we came plump on to hi hump ! instead of the other whale ' s ; that went off to windward , all fluke . see how matter stood , and what a nobl great whale it wa -- the noblest and biggest I ever saw , sir , in my life -- I resolv to captur him , spite of the boil rage he seem to be in . and think the hap - hazard line would get loos , or the tooth it wa tangl to might draw ( for I have a devil of a boat ' s crew for a pull on a whale - line ) ; see all thi , I say , I jump into my first mate ' s boat -- Mr . mounttop ' s here ( by the way , captain -- mounttop ; mounttop -- the captain ) ; -- as I wa say , I jump into mounttop ' s boat , which , d ' ye see , wa gunwal and gunwal with mine , then ; and snatch the first harpoon , let thi old great - grandfath have it . but , lord , look you , sir -- heart and soul aliv , man -- the next instant , in a jiff , I wa blind as a bat -- both eye out -- all befog and bedeaden with black foam -- the whale ' s tail loom straight up out of it , perpendicular in the air , like a marbl steepl . No use stern all , then ; but as I wa grope at midday , with a blind sun , all crown - jewel ; as I wa grope , I say , after the second iron , to toss it overboard -- down come the tail like a lima tower , cut my boat in two , leav each half in splinter ; and , fluke first , the white hump back through the wreck , as though it wa all chip . We all struck out . To escap hi terribl flail , I seiz hold of my harpoon - pole stick in him , and for a moment clung to that like a suck fish . but a comb sea dash me off , and at the same instant , the fish , take one good dart forward , went down like a flash ; and the barb of that curs second iron tow along near me caught me here `` ( clap hi hand just below hi shoulder ) ; `` ye , caught me just here , I say , and bore me down to hell ' s flame , I wa think ; when , when , all of a sudden , thank the good god , the barb ript it way along the flesh -- clear along the whole length of my arm -- came out nigh my wrist , and up I float ; -- and that gentleman there will tell you the rest ( by the way , captain -- Dr . bunger , ship ' s surgeon : bunger , my lad , -- the captain ) . now , bunger boy , spin your part of the yarn . '' the profession gentleman thu familiarli point out , had been all the time stand near them , with noth specif visibl , to denot hi gentlemanli rank on board . hi face wa an exceedingli round but sober one ; he wa dress in a fade blue woollen frock or shirt , and patch trowser ; and had thu far been divid hi attent between a marlingspik he held in one hand , and a pill - box held in the other , occasion cast a critic glanc at the ivori limb of the two crippl captain . but , at hi superior ' s introduct of him to ahab , he polit bow , and straightway went on to do hi captain ' s bid . `` It wa a shock bad wound , '' began the whale - surgeon ; `` and , take my advic , captain boomer here , stood our old sammi -- '' `` samuel enderbi is the name of my ship , '' interrupt the one - arm captain , address ahab ; `` go on , boy . '' `` stood our old sammi off to the northward , to get out of the blaze hot weather there on the line . but it wa no use -- I did all I could ; sat up with him night ; wa veri sever with him in the matter of diet -- '' `` Oh , veri sever ! '' chime in the patient himself ; then suddenli alter hi voic , `` drink hot rum toddi with me everi night , till he couldn ' t see to put on the bandag ; and send me to bed , half sea over , about three o ' clock in the morn . Oh , ye star ! he sat up with me inde , and wa veri sever in my diet . Oh ! a great watcher , and veri dietet sever , is Dr . bunger . ( bunger , you dog , laugh out ! whi don ' t ye ? you know you ' re a preciou jolli rascal . ) but , heav ahead , boy , I ' d rather be kill by you than kept aliv by ani other man . '' `` My captain , you must have ere thi perceiv , respect sir `` -- said the imperturb godli - look bunger , slightli bow to ahab -- '' is apt to be faceti at time ; he spin us mani clever thing of that sort . but I may as well say -- en passant , as the french remark -- that I myself -- that is to say , jack bunger , late of the reverend clergi -- am a strict total abstin man ; I never drink -- '' `` water ! '' cri the captain ; `` he never drink it ; it ' s a sort of fit to him ; fresh water throw him into the hydrophobia ; but go on -- go on with the arm stori . '' `` ye , I may as well , '' said the surgeon , coolli . `` I wa about observ , sir , befor captain boomer ' s faceti interrupt , that spite of my best and severest endeavor , the wound kept get wors and wors ; the truth wa , sir , it wa as ugli gape wound as surgeon ever saw ; more than two feet and sever inch long . I measur it with the lead line . In short , it grew black ; I knew what wa threaten , and off it came . but I had no hand in ship that ivori arm there ; that thing is against all rule `` -- point at it with the marlingspik -- '' that is the captain ' s work , not mine ; he order the carpent to make it ; he had that club - hammer there put to the end , to knock some one ' s brain out with , I suppos , as he tri mine onc . He fli into diabol passion sometim . Do ye see thi dent , sir `` -- remov hi hat , and brush asid hi hair , and expos a bowl - like caviti in hi skull , but which bore not the slightest scarri trace , or ani token of ever have been a wound -- '' well , the captain there will tell you how that came here ; he know . '' `` No , I don ' t , '' said the captain , `` but hi mother did ; he wa born with it . Oh , you solemn rogu , you -- you bunger ! wa there ever such anoth bunger in the wateri world ? bunger , when you die , you ought to die in pickl , you dog ; you should be preserv to futur age , you rascal . '' `` what becam of the white whale ? '' now cri ahab , who thu far had been impati listen to thi by - play between the two englishmen . `` Oh ! '' cri the one - arm captain , `` oh , ye ! well ; after he sound , we didn ' t see him again for some time ; in fact , as I befor hint , I didn ' t then know what whale it wa that had serv me such a trick , till some time afterward , when come back to the line , we heard about mobi dick -- as some call him -- and then I knew it wa he . '' `` did ' st thou cross hi wake again ? '' `` twice . '' `` but could not fasten ? '' `` didn ' t want to tri to : ain ' t one limb enough ? what should I do without thi other arm ? and I ' m think mobi dick doesn ' t bite so much as he swallow . '' `` well , then , '' interrupt bunger , `` give him your left arm for bait to get the right . Do you know , gentlemen `` -- veri grave and mathemat bow to each captain in success -- '' Do you know , gentlemen , that the digest organ of the whale are so inscrut construct by divin provid , that it is quit imposs for him to complet digest even a man ' s arm ? and he know it too . So that what you take for the white whale ' s malic is onli hi awkward . for he never mean to swallow a singl limb ; he onli think to terrifi by feint . but sometim he is like the old juggl fellow , formerli a patient of mine in ceylon , that make believ swallow jack - knive , onc upon a time let one drop into him in good earnest , and there it stay for a twelvemonth or more ; when I gave him an emet , and he heav it up in small tack , d ' ye see . No possibl way for him to digest that jack - knife , and fulli incorpor it into hi gener bodili system . ye , captain boomer , if you are quick enough about it , and have a mind to pawn one arm for the sake of the privileg of give decent burial to the other , whi in that case the arm is your ; onli let the whale have anoth chanc at you shortli , that ' s all . '' `` No , thank ye , bunger , '' said the english captain , `` he ' s welcom to the arm he ha , sinc I can ' t help it , and didn ' t know him then ; but not to anoth one . No more white whale for me ; I ' ve lower for him onc , and that ha satisfi me . there would be great glori in kill him , I know that ; and there is a ship - load of preciou sperm in him , but , hark ye , he ' s best let alon ; don ' t you think so , captain ? '' -- glanc at the ivori leg . `` He is . but he will still be hunt , for all that . what is best let alon , that accurs thing is not alway what least allur . He ' s all a magnet ! how long sinc thou saw ' st him last ? which way head ? '' `` bless my soul , and curs the foul fiend ' s , '' cri bunger , stoopingli walk round ahab , and like a dog , strang snuf ; `` thi man ' s blood -- bring the thermomet ! -- it ' s at the boil point ! -- hi puls make these plank beat ! -- sir ! '' -- take a lancet from hi pocket , and draw near to ahab ' s arm . `` avast ! '' roar ahab , dash him against the bulwark -- '' man the boat ! which way head ? '' `` good god ! '' cri the english captain , to whom the question wa put . `` what ' s the matter ? He wa head east , I think . -- Is your captain crazi ? '' whisper fedallah . but fedallah , put a finger on hi lip , slid over the bulwark to take the boat ' s steer oar , and ahab , swing the cut - tackl toward him , command the ship ' s sailor to stand by to lower . In a moment he wa stand in the boat ' s stern , and the manilla men were spring to their oar . In vain the english captain hail him . with back to the stranger ship , and face set like a flint to hi own , ahab stood upright till alongsid of the pequod . chapter 101 the decant . ere the english ship fade from sight , be it set down here , that she hail from london , and wa name after the late samuel enderbi , merchant of that citi , the origin of the famou whale hous of enderbi & son ; a hous which in my poor whaleman ' s opinion , come not far behind the unit royal hous of the tudor and bourbon , in point of real histor interest . how long , prior to the year of our lord 1775 , thi great whale hous wa in exist , my numer fish - document do not make plain ; but in that year ( 1775 ) it fit out the first english ship that ever regularli hunt the sperm whale ; though for some score of year previou ( ever sinc 1726 ) our valiant coffin and macey of nantucket and the vineyard had in larg fleet pursu that leviathan , but onli in the north and south atlant : not elsewher . Be it distinctli record here , that the nantucket were the first among mankind to harpoon with civil steel the great sperm whale ; and that for half a centuri they were the onli peopl of the whole globe who so harpoon him . In 1778 , a fine ship , the amelia , fit out for the express purpos , and at the sole charg of the vigor enderbi , boldli round cape horn , and wa the first among the nation to lower a whale - boat of ani sort in the great south sea . the voyag wa a skil and lucki one ; and return to her berth with her hold full of the preciou sperm , the amelia ' s exampl wa soon follow by other ship , english and american , and thu the vast sperm whale ground of the pacif were thrown open . but not content with thi good deed , the indefatig hous again bestir itself : samuel and all hi son -- how mani , their mother onli know -- and under their immedi auspic , and partli , I think , at their expens , the british govern wa induc to send the sloop - of - war rattler on a whale voyag of discoveri into the south sea . command by a naval post - captain , the rattler made a rattl voyag of it , and did some servic ; how much doe not appear . but thi is not all . In 1819 , the same hous fit out a discoveri whale ship of their own , to go on a tast cruis to the remot water of japan . that ship -- well call the `` syren `` -- made a nobl experiment cruis ; and it wa thu that the great japanes whale ground first becam gener known . the syren in thi famou voyag wa command by a captain coffin , a nantucket . all honour to the enderbi , therefor , whose hous , I think , exist to the present day ; though doubtless the origin samuel must long ago have slip hi cabl for the great south sea of the other world . the ship name after him wa worthi of the honour , be a veri fast sailer and a nobl craft everi way . I board her onc at midnight somewher off the patagonian coast , and drank good flip down in the forecastl . It wa a fine gam we had , and they were all trump -- everi soul on board . A short life to them , and a jolli death . and that fine gam I had -- long , veri long after old ahab touch her plank with hi ivori heel -- it mind me of the nobl , solid , saxon hospit of that ship ; and may my parson forget me , and the devil rememb me , if I ever lose sight of it . flip ? did I say we had flip ? ye , and we flip it at the rate of ten gallon the hour ; and when the squall came ( for it ' s squalli off there by patagonia ) , and all hand -- visitor and all -- were call to reef topsail , we were so top - heavi that we had to swing each other aloft in bowlin ; and we ignorantli furl the skirt of our jacket into the sail , so that we hung there , reef fast in the howl gale , a warn exampl to all drunken tar . howev , the mast did not go overboard ; and by and by we scrambl down , so sober , that we had to pass the flip again , though the savag salt spray burst down the forecastl scuttl , rather too much dilut and pickl it to my tast . the beef wa fine -- tough , but with bodi in it . they said it wa bull - beef ; other , that it wa dromedari beef ; but I do not know , for certain , how that wa . they had dumpl too ; small , but substanti , symmetr globular , and indestruct dumpl . I fanci that you could feel them , and roll them about in you after they were swallow . If you stoop over too far forward , you risk their pitch out of you like billiard - ball . the bread -- but that couldn ' t be help ; besid , it wa an anti - scorbut ; in short , the bread contain the onli fresh fare they had . but the forecastl wa not veri light , and it wa veri easi to step over into a dark corner when you ate it . but all in all , take her from truck to helm , consid the dimens of the cook ' s boiler , includ hi own live parchment boiler ; fore and aft , I say , the samuel enderbi wa a jolli ship ; of good fare and plenti ; fine flip and strong ; crack fellow all , and capit from boot heel to hat - band . but whi wa it , think ye , that the samuel enderbi , and some other english whaler I know of -- not all though -- were such famou , hospit ship ; that pass round the beef , and the bread , and the can , and the joke ; and were not soon weari of eat , and drink , and laugh ? I will tell you . the abound good cheer of these english whaler is matter for histor research . nor have I been at all spare of histor whale research , when it ha seem need . the english were preced in the whale fisheri by the holland , zealand , and dane ; from whom they deriv mani term still extant in the fisheri ; and what is yet more , their fat old fashion , touch plenti to eat and drink . for , as a gener thing , the english merchant - ship scrimp her crew ; but not so the english whaler . henc , in the english , thi thing of whale good cheer is not normal and natur , but incident and particular ; and , therefor , must have some special origin , which is here point out , and will be still further elucid . dure my research in the leviathan histori , I stumbl upon an ancient dutch volum , which , by the musti whale smell of it , I knew must be about whaler . the titl wa , `` dan coopman , '' wherefor I conclud that thi must be the invalu memoir of some amsterdam cooper in the fisheri , as everi whale ship must carri it cooper . I wa reinforc in thi opinion by see that it wa the product of one `` fitz swackhamm . '' but my friend Dr . snodhead , a veri learn man , professor of low dutch and high german in the colleg of santa clau and St . pott ' s , to whom I hand the work for translat , give him a box of sperm candl for hi troubl -- thi same Dr . snodhead , so soon as he spi the book , assur me that `` dan coopman `` did not mean `` the cooper , '' but `` the merchant . '' In short , thi ancient and learn low dutch book treat of the commerc of holland ; and , among other subject , contain a veri interest account of it whale fisheri . and in thi chapter it wa , head , `` smeer , '' or `` fat , '' that I found a long detail list of the outfit for the larder and cellar of 180 sail of dutch whalemen ; from which list , as translat by Dr . snodhead , I transcrib the follow : 400 , 000 lb . of beef . 60 , 000 lb . friesland pork . 150 , 000 lb . of stock fish . 550 , 000 lb . of biscuit . 72 , 000 lb . of soft bread . 2 , 800 firkin of butter . 20 , 000 lb . texel & leyden chees . 144 , 000 lb . chees ( probabl an inferior articl ) . 550 anker of geneva . 10 , 800 barrel of beer . most statist tabl are parchingli dri in the read ; not so in the present case , howev , where the reader is flood with whole pipe , barrel , quart , and gill of good gin and good cheer . At the time , I devot three day to the studiou digest of all thi beer , beef , and bread , dure which mani profound thought were incident suggest to me , capabl of a transcendent and platon applic ; and , furthermor , I compil supplementari tabl of my own , touch the probabl quantiti of stock - fish , etc . , consum by everi low dutch harpoon in that ancient greenland and spitzbergen whale fisheri . In the first place , the amount of butter , and texel and leyden chees consum , seem amaz . I imput it , though , to their natur unctuou natur , be render still more unctuou by the natur of their vocat , and especi by their pursu their game in those frigid polar sea , on the veri coast of that esquimaux countri where the convivi nativ pledg each other in bumper of train oil . the quantiti of beer , too , is veri larg , 10 , 800 barrel . now , as those polar fisheri could onli be prosecut in the short summer of that climat , so that the whole cruis of one of these dutch whalemen , includ the short voyag to and from the spitzbergen sea , did not much exceed three month , say , and reckon 30 men to each of their fleet of 180 sail , we have 5 , 400 low dutch seamen in all ; therefor , I say , we have precis two barrel of beer per man , for a twelv week ' allow , exclus of hi fair proport of that 550 anker of gin . now , whether these gin and beer harpoon , so fuddl as one might fanci them to have been , were the right sort of men to stand up in a boat ' s head , and take good aim at fli whale ; thi would seem somewhat improb . yet they did aim at them , and hit them too . but thi wa veri far north , be it rememb , where beer agre well with the constitut ; upon the equat , in our southern fisheri , beer would be apt to make the harpoon sleepi at the mast - head and boozi in hi boat ; and grievou loss might ensu to nantucket and new bedford . but no more ; enough ha been said to show that the old dutch whaler of two or three centuri ago were high liver ; and that the english whaler have not neglect so excel an exampl . for , say they , when cruis in an empti ship , if you can get noth better out of the world , get a good dinner out of it , at least . and thi empti the decant . chapter 102 A bower in the arsacid . hitherto , in descript treat of the sperm whale , I have chiefli dwelt upon the marvel of hi outer aspect ; or separ and in detail upon some few interior structur featur . but to a larg and thorough sweep comprehens of him , it behoov me now to unbutton him still further , and untag the point of hi hose , unbuckl hi garter , and cast loos the hook and the eye of the joint of hi innermost bone , set him befor you in hi ultimatum ; that is to say , in hi uncondit skeleton . but how now , ishmael ? how is it , that you , a mere oarsman in the fisheri , pretend to know aught about the subterranean part of the whale ? did erudit stubb , mount upon your capstan , deliv lectur on the anatomi of the cetacea ; and by help of the windlass , hold up a specimen rib for exhibit ? explain thyself , ishmael . can you land a full - grown whale on your deck for examin , as a cook dish a roast - pig ? sure not . A verit wit have you hitherto been , ishmael ; but have a care how you seiz the privileg of jonah alon ; the privileg of discours upon the joist and beam ; the rafter , ridg - pole , sleeper , and under - pin , make up the frame - work of leviathan ; and belik of the tallow - vat , dairi - room , butteri , and cheeseri in hi bowel . I confess , that sinc jonah , few whalemen have penetr veri far beneath the skin of the adult whale ; nevertheless , I have been bless with an opportun to dissect him in miniatur . In a ship I belong to , a small cub sperm whale wa onc bodili hoist to the deck for hi poke or bag , to make sheath for the barb of the harpoon , and for the head of the lanc . think you I let that chanc go , without use my boat - hatchet and jack - knife , and break the seal and read all the content of that young cub ? and as for my exact knowledg of the bone of the leviathan in their gigant , full grown develop , for that rare knowledg I am indebt to my late royal friend tranquo , king of tranqu , one of the arsacid . for be at tranqu , year ago , when attach to the trade - ship dey of algier , I wa invit to spend part of the arsacidean holiday with the lord of tranqu , at hi retir palm villa at pupella ; a sea - side glen not veri far distant from what our sailor call bamboo - town , hi capit . among mani other fine qualiti , my royal friend tranquo , be gift with a devout love for all matter of barbar vertu , had brought togeth in pupella whatev rare thing the more ingeni of hi peopl could invent ; chiefli carv wood of wonder devic , chisel shell , inlaid spear , costli paddl , aromat cano ; and all these distribut among whatev natur wonder , the wonder - freight , tribut - render wave had cast upon hi shore . chief among these latter wa a great sperm whale , which , after an unusu long rage gale , had been found dead and strand , with hi head against a cocoa - nut tree , whose plumag - like , tuft droop seem hi verdant jet . when the vast bodi had at last been strip of it fathom - deep enfold , and the bone becom dust dri in the sun , then the skeleton wa care transport up the pupella glen , where a grand templ of lordli palm now shelter it . the rib were hung with trophi ; the vertebra were carv with arsacidean annal , in strang hieroglyph ; in the skull , the priest kept up an unextinguish aromat flame , so that the mystic head again sent forth it vapouri spout ; while , suspend from a bough , the terrif lower jaw vibrat over all the devote , like the hair - hung sword that so affright damocl . It wa a wondrou sight . the wood wa green as moss of the ici glen ; the tree stood high and haughti , feel their live sap ; the industri earth beneath wa as a weaver ' s loom , with a gorgeou carpet on it , whereof the ground - vine tendril form the warp and woof , and the live flower the figur . all the tree , with all their laden branch ; all the shrub , and fern , and grass ; the messag - carri air ; all these unceasingli were activ . through the lace of the leav , the great sun seem a fli shuttl weav the unweari verdur . Oh , busi weaver ! unseen weaver ! -- paus ! -- one word ! -- whither flow the fabric ? what palac may it deck ? wherefor all these ceaseless toil ? speak , weaver ! -- stay thi hand ! -- but one singl word with thee ! nay -- the shuttl fli -- the figur float from forth the loom ; the freshet - rush carpet for ever slide away . the weaver - god , he weav ; and by that weav is he deafen , that he hear no mortal voic ; and by that hum , we , too , who look on the loom are deafen ; and onli when we escap it shall we hear the thousand voic that speak through it . for even so it is in all materi factori . the spoken word that are inaud among the fli spindl ; those same word are plainli heard without the wall , burst from the open casement . therebi have villaini been detect . Ah , mortal ! then , be heed ; for so , in all thi din of the great world ' s loom , thi subtlest think may be overheard afar . now , amid the green , life - restless loom of that arsacidean wood , the great , white , worship skeleton lay loung -- a gigant idler ! yet , as the ever - woven verdant warp and woof intermix and hum around him , the mighti idler seem the cun weaver ; himself all woven over with the vine ; everi month assum greener , fresher verdur ; but himself a skeleton . life fold death ; death trellis life ; the grim god wive with youth life , and begat him curli - head glori . now , when with royal tranquo I visit thi wondrou whale , and saw the skull an altar , and the artifici smoke ascend from where the real jet had issu , I marvel that the king should regard a chapel as an object of vertu . He laugh . but more I marvel that the priest should swear that smoki jet of hi wa genuin . To and fro I pace befor thi skeleton -- brush the vine asid -- broke through the rib -- and with a ball of arsacidean twine , wander , eddi long amid it mani wind , shade colonnad and arbour . but soon my line wa out ; and follow it back , I emerg from the open where I enter . I saw no live thing within ; naught wa there but bone . cut me a green measur - rod , I onc more dive within the skeleton . from their arrow - slit in the skull , the priest perceiv me take the altitud of the final rib , `` how now ! '' they shout ; `` dar ' st thou measur thi our god ! that ' s for us . '' `` aye , priest -- well , how long do ye make him , then ? '' but hereupon a fierc contest rose among them , concern feet and inch ; they crack each other ' s sconc with their yard - stick -- the great skull echo -- and seiz that lucki chanc , I quickli conclud my own admeasur . these admeasur I now propos to set befor you . but first , be it record , that , in thi matter , I am not free to utter ani fanci measur I pleas . becaus there are skeleton author you can refer to , to test my accuraci . there is a leviathan museum , they tell me , in hull , england , one of the whale port of that countri , where they have some fine specimen of fin - back and other whale . likewis , I have heard that in the museum of manchest , in new hampshir , they have what the proprietor call `` the onli perfect specimen of a greenland or river whale in the unit state . '' moreov , at a place in yorkshir , england , burton constabl by name , a certain sir clifford constabl ha in hi possess the skeleton of a sperm whale , but of moder size , by no mean of the full - grown magnitud of my friend king tranquo ' s . In both case , the strand whale to which these two skeleton belong , were origin claim by their proprietor upon similar ground . king tranquo seiz hi becaus he want it ; and sir clifford , becaus he wa lord of the seignori of those part . sir clifford ' s whale ha been articul throughout ; so that , like a great chest of drawer , you can open and shut him , in all hi boni caviti -- spread out hi rib like a gigant fan -- and swing all day upon hi lower jaw . lock are to be put upon some of hi trap - door and shutter ; and a footman will show round futur visitor with a bunch of key at hi side . sir clifford think of charg twopenc for a peep at the whisper galleri in the spinal column ; threepenc to hear the echo in the hollow of hi cerebellum ; and sixpenc for the unrival view from hi forehead . the skeleton dimens I shall now proceed to set down are copi verbatim from my right arm , where I had them tattoo ; as in my wild wander at that period , there wa no other secur way of preserv such valuabl statist . but as I wa crowd for space , and wish the other part of my bodi to remain a blank page for a poem I wa then compos -- at least , what untattoo part might remain -- I did not troubl myself with the odd inch ; nor , inde , should inch at all enter into a congeni admeasur of the whale . chapter 103 measur of the whale ' s skeleton . In the first place , I wish to lay befor you a particular , plain statement , touch the live bulk of thi leviathan , whose skeleton we are briefli to exhibit . such a statement may prove use here . accord to a care calcul I have made , and which I partli base upon captain scoresbi ' s estim , of seventi ton for the largest size greenland whale of sixti feet in length ; accord to my care calcul , I say , a sperm whale of the largest magnitud , between eighti - five and nineti feet in length , and someth less than forti feet in it fullest circumfer , such a whale will weigh at least nineti ton ; so that , reckon thirteen men to a ton , he would consider outweigh the combin popul of a whole villag of one thousand one hundr inhabit . think you not then that brain , like yoke cattl , should be put to thi leviathan , to make him at all budg to ani landsman ' s imagin ? have alreadi in variou way put befor you hi skull , spout - hole , jaw , teeth , tail , forehead , fin , and diver other part , I shall now simpli point out what is most interest in the gener bulk of hi unobstruct bone . but as the coloss skull embrac so veri larg a proport of the entir extent of the skeleton ; as it is by far the most complic part ; and as noth is to be repeat concern it in thi chapter , you must not fail to carri it in your mind , or under your arm , as we proceed , otherwis you will not gain a complet notion of the gener structur we are about to view . In length , the sperm whale ' s skeleton at tranqu measur seventi - two feet ; so that when fulli invest and extend in life , he must have been nineti feet long ; for in the whale , the skeleton lose about one fifth in length compar with the live bodi . Of thi seventi - two feet , hi skull and jaw compris some twenti feet , leav some fifti feet of plain back - bone . attach to thi back - bone , for someth less than a third of it length , wa the mighti circular basket of rib which onc enclos hi vital . To me thi vast ivori - rib chest , with the long , unreliev spine , extend far away from it in a straight line , not a littl resembl the hull of a great ship new - laid upon the stock , when onli some twenti of her nake bow - rib are insert , and the keel is otherwis , for the time , but a long , disconnect timber . the rib were ten on a side . the first , to begin from the neck , wa nearli six feet long ; the second , third , and fourth were each success longer , till you came to the climax of the fifth , or one of the middl rib , which measur eight feet and some inch . from that part , the remain rib diminish , till the tenth and last onli span five feet and some inch . In gener thick , they all bore a seemli correspond to their length . the middl rib were the most arch . In some of the arsacid they are use for beam whereon to lay footpath bridg over small stream . In consid these rib , I could not but be struck anew with the circumst , so various repeat in thi book , that the skeleton of the whale is by no mean the mould of hi invest form . the largest of the tranqu rib , one of the middl one , occupi that part of the fish which , in life , is greatest in depth . now , the greatest depth of the invest bodi of thi particular whale must have been at least sixteen feet ; wherea , the correspond rib measur but littl more than eight feet . So that thi rib onli convey half of the true notion of the live magnitud of that part . besid , for some way , where I now saw but a nake spine , all that had been onc wrap round with ton of ad bulk in flesh , muscl , blood , and bowel . still more , for the ampl fin , I here saw but a few disord joint ; and in place of the weighti and majest , but boneless fluke , an utter blank ! how vain and foolish , then , thought I , for timid untravel man to tri to comprehend aright thi wondrou whale , by mere pore over hi dead attenu skeleton , stretch in thi peac wood . No . onli in the heart of quickest peril ; onli when within the eddi of hi angri fluke ; onli on the profound unbound sea , can the fulli invest whale be truli and livingli found out . but the spine . for that , the best way we can consid it is , with a crane , to pile it bone high up on end . No speedi enterpris . but now it ' s done , it look much like pompey ' s pillar . there are forti and odd vertebra in all , which in the skeleton are not lock togeth . they mostli lie like the great knob block on a gothic spire , form solid cours of heavi masonri . the largest , a middl one , is in width someth less than three feet , and in depth more than four . the smallest , where the spine taper away into the tail , is onli two inch in width , and look someth like a white billiard - ball . I wa told that there were still smaller one , but they had been lost by some littl cannib urchin , the priest ' s children , who had stolen them to play marbl with . thu we see how that the spine of even the hugest of live thing taper off at last into simpl child ' s play . chapter 104 the fossil whale . from hi mighti bulk the whale afford a most congeni theme whereon to enlarg , amplifi , and gener expati . would you , you could not compress him . By good right he should onli be treat of in imperi folio . not to tell over again hi furlong from spiracl to tail , and the yard he measur about the waist ; onli think of the gigant involut of hi intestin , where they lie in him like great cabl and hawser coil away in the subterranean orlop - deck of a line - of - battl - ship . sinc I have undertaken to manhandl thi leviathan , it behoov me to approv myself omnisci exhaust in the enterpris ; not overlook the minutest semin germ of hi blood , and spin him out to the uttermost coil of hi bowel . have alreadi describ him in most of hi present habitatori and anatom peculiar , it now remain to magnifi him in an archaeolog , fossilifer , and antediluvian point of view . appli to ani other creatur than the leviathan -- to an ant or a flea -- such portli term might justli be deem unwarrant grandiloqu . but when leviathan is the text , the case is alter . fain am I to stagger to thi empris under the weightiest word of the dictionari . and here be it said , that whenev it ha been conveni to consult one in the cours of these dissert , I have invari use a huge quarto edit of johnson , expressli purchas for that purpos ; becaus that famou lexicograph ' s uncommon person bulk more fit him to compil a lexicon to be use by a whale author like me . one often hear of writer that rise and swell with their subject , though it may seem but an ordinari one . how , then , with me , write of thi leviathan ? unconsci my chirographi expand into placard capit . give me a condor ' s quill ! give me vesuviu ' crater for an inkstand ! friend , hold my arm ! for in the mere act of pen my thought of thi leviathan , they weari me , and make me faint with their outreach comprehens of sweep , as if to includ the whole circl of the scienc , and all the gener of whale , and men , and mastodon , past , present , and to come , with all the revolv panorama of empir on earth , and throughout the whole univers , not exclud it suburb . such , and so magnifi , is the virtu of a larg and liber theme ! We expand to it bulk . To produc a mighti book , you must choos a mighti theme . No great and endur volum can ever be written on the flea , though mani there be who have tri it . ere enter upon the subject of fossil whale , I present my credenti as a geologist , by state that in my miscellan time I have been a stone - mason , and also a great digger of ditch , canal and well , wine - vault , cellar , and cistern of all sort . likewis , by way of preliminari , I desir to remind the reader , that while in the earlier geolog strata there are found the fossil of monster now almost complet extinct ; the subsequ relic discov in what are call the tertiari format seem the connect , or at ani rate intercept link , between the antichron creatur , and those whose remot poster are said to have enter the ark ; all the fossil whale hitherto discov belong to the tertiari period , which is the last preced the superfici format . and though none of them precis answer to ani known speci of the present time , they are yet suffici akin to them in gener respect , to justifi their take rank as cetacean fossil . detach broken fossil of pre - adamit whale , fragment of their bone and skeleton , have within thirti year past , at variou interv , been found at the base of the alp , in lombardi , in franc , in england , in scotland , and in the state of louisiana , mississippi , and alabama . among the more curiou of such remain is part of a skull , which in the year 1779 wa disint in the rue dauphin in pari , a short street open almost directli upon the palac of the tuileri ; and bone disint in excav the great dock of antwerp , in napoleon ' s time . cuvier pronounc these fragment to have belong to some utterli unknown leviathan speci . but by far the most wonder of all cetacean relic wa the almost complet vast skeleton of an extinct monster , found in the year 1842 , on the plantat of judg creagh , in alabama . the awe - stricken credul slave in the vicin took it for the bone of one of the fallen angel . the alabama doctor declar it a huge reptil , and bestow upon it the name of basilosauru . but some specimen bone of it be taken across the sea to owen , the english anatomist , it turn out that thi alleg reptil wa a whale , though of a depart speci . A signific illustr of the fact , again and again repeat in thi book , that the skeleton of the whale furnish but littl clue to the shape of hi fulli invest bodi . So owen rechristen the monster zeuglodon ; and in hi paper read befor the london geolog societi , pronounc it , in substanc , one of the most extraordinari creatur which the mutat of the globe have blot out of exist . when I stand among these mighti leviathan skeleton , skull , tusk , jaw , rib , and vertebra , all character by partial resembl to the exist breed of sea - monster ; but at the same time bear on the other hand similar affin to the annihil antichron leviathan , their incalcul senior ; I am , by a flood , born back to that wondrou period , ere time itself can be said to have begun ; for time began with man . here saturn ' s grey chao roll over me , and I obtain dim , shudder glimps into those polar etern ; when wedg bastion of ice press hard upon what are now the tropic ; and in all the 25 , 000 mile of thi world ' s circumfer , not an inhabit hand ' s breadth of land wa visibl . then the whole world wa the whale ' s ; and , king of creation , he left hi wake along the present line of the and and the himmaleh . who can show a pedigre like leviathan ? ahab ' s harpoon had shed older blood than the pharaoh ' s . methuselah seem a school - boy . I look round to shake hand with shem . I am horror - struck at thi antemosa , unsourc exist of the unspeak terror of the whale , which , have been befor all time , must need exist after all human age are over . but not alon ha thi leviathan left hi pre - adamit trace in the stereotyp plate of natur , and in limeston and marl bequeath hi ancient bust ; but upon egyptian tablet , whose antiqu seem to claim for them an almost fossilifer charact , we find the unmistak print of hi fin . In an apart of the great templ of denderah , some fifti year ago , there wa discov upon the granit ceil a sculptur and paint planispher , abound in centaur , griffin , and dolphin , similar to the grotesqu figur on the celesti globe of the modern . glide among them , old leviathan swam as of yore ; wa there swim in that planispher , centuri befor solomon wa cradl . nor must there be omit anoth strang attest of the antiqu of the whale , in hi own osseou post - diluvian realiti , as set down by the vener john leo , the old barbari travel . `` not far from the sea - side , they have a templ , the rafter and beam of which are made of whale - bone ; for whale of a monstrou size are oftentim cast up dead upon that shore . the common peopl imagin , that by a secret power bestow by god upon the templ , no whale can pass it without immedi death . but the truth of the matter is , that on either side of the templ , there are rock that shoot two mile into the sea , and wound the whale when they light upon ' em . they keep a whale ' s rib of an incred length for a miracl , which lie upon the ground with it convex part uppermost , make an arch , the head of which can not be reach by a man upon a camel ' s back . thi rib ( say john leo ) is said to have layn there a hundr year befor I saw it . their historian affirm , that a prophet who prophesi ' d of mahomet , came from thi templ , and some do not stand to assert , that the prophet jona wa cast forth by the whale at the base of the templ . '' In thi afric templ of the whale I leav you , reader , and if you be a nantucket , and a whaleman , you will silent worship there . chapter 105 doe the whale ' s magnitud diminish ? -- will He perish ? inasmuch , then , as thi leviathan come flounder down upon us from the head - water of the etern , it may be fitli inquir , whether , in the long cours of hi gener , he ha not degener from the origin bulk of hi sire . but upon investig we find , that not onli are the whale of the present day superior in magnitud to those whose fossil remain are found in the tertiari system ( embrac a distinct geolog period prior to man ) , but of the whale found in that tertiari system , those belong to it latter format exceed in size those of it earlier one . Of all the pre - adamit whale yet exhum , by far the largest is the alabama one mention in the last chapter , and that wa less than seventi feet in length in the skeleton . wherea , we have alreadi seen , that the tape - measur give seventi - two feet for the skeleton of a larg size modern whale . and I have heard , on whalemen ' s author , that sperm whale have been captur near a hundr feet long at the time of captur . but may it not be , that while the whale of the present hour are an advanc in magnitud upon those of all previou geolog period ; may it not be , that sinc adam ' s time they have degener ? assuredli , we must conclud so , if we are to credit the account of such gentlemen as plini , and the ancient naturalist gener . for plini tell us of whale that embrac acr of live bulk , and aldrovandu of other which measur eight hundr feet in length -- rope walk and thame tunnel of whale ! and even in the day of bank and soland , cook ' s naturalist , we find a danish member of the academi of scienc set down certain iceland whale ( reydan - siskur , or wrinkl belli ) at one hundr and twenti yard ; that is , three hundr and sixti feet . and laceped , the french naturalist , in hi elabor histori of whale , in the veri begin of hi work ( page 3 ) , set down the right whale at one hundr metr , three hundr and twenti - eight feet . and thi work wa publish so late as A . D . 1825 . but will ani whaleman believ these stori ? No . the whale of to - day is as big as hi ancestor in plini ' s time . and if ever I go where plini is , I , a whaleman ( more than he wa ) , will make bold to tell him so . becaus I can not understand how it is , that while the egyptian mummi that were buri thousand of year befor even plini wa born , do not measur so much in their coffin as a modern kentuckian in hi sock ; and while the cattl and other anim sculptur on the oldest egyptian and nineveh tablet , by the rel proport in which they are drawn , just as plainli prove that the high - bred , stall - fed , prize cattl of smithfield , not onli equal , but far exceed in magnitud the fattest of pharaoh ' s fat kine ; in the face of all thi , I will not admit that of all anim the whale alon should have degener . but still anoth inquiri remain ; one often agit by the more recondit nantucket . whether owe to the almost omnisci look - out at the mast - head of the whaleship , now penetr even through behr ' s strait , and into the remotest secret drawer and locker of the world ; and the thousand harpoon and lanc dart along all continent coast ; the moot point is , whether leviathan can long endur so wide a chase , and so remorseless a havoc ; whether he must not at last be extermin from the water , and the last whale , like the last man , smoke hi last pipe , and then himself evapor in the final puff . compar the hump herd of whale with the hump herd of buffalo , which , not forti year ago , overspread by ten of thousand the prairi of illinoi and missouri , and shook their iron mane and scowl with their thunder - clot brow upon the site of popul river - capit , where now the polit broker sell you land at a dollar an inch ; in such a comparison an irresist argument would seem furnish , to show that the hunt whale can not now escap speedi extinct . but you must look at thi matter in everi light . though so short a period ago -- not a good lifetim -- the censu of the buffalo in illinoi exceed the censu of men now in london , and though at the present day not one horn or hoof of them remain in all that region ; and though the caus of thi wondrou extermin wa the spear of man ; yet the far differ natur of the whale - hunt peremptorili forbid so inglori an end to the leviathan . forti men in one ship hunt the sperm whale for forti - eight month think they have done extrem well , and thank god , if at last they carri home the oil of forti fish . wherea , in the day of the old canadian and indian hunter and trapper of the west , when the far west ( in whose sunset sun still rise ) wa a wilder and a virgin , the same number of moccasin men , for the same number of month , mount on hors instead of sail in ship , would have slain not forti , but forti thousand and more buffalo ; a fact that , if need were , could be statist state . nor , consid aright , doe it seem ani argument in favour of the gradual extinct of the sperm whale , for exampl , that in former year ( the latter part of the last centuri , say ) these leviathan , in small pod , were encount much often than at present , and , in consequ , the voyag were not so prolong , and were also much more remun . becaus , as ha been elsewher notic , those whale , influenc by some view to safeti , now swim the sea in immens caravan , so that to a larg degre the scatter solitari , yoke , and pod , and school of other day are now aggreg into vast but wide separ , unfrequ armi . that is all . and equal fallaci seem the conceit , that becaus the so - call whale - bone whale no longer haunt mani ground in former year abound with them , henc that speci also is declin . for they are onli be driven from promontori to cape ; and if one coast is no longer enliven with their jet , then , be sure , some other and remot strand ha been veri recent startl by the unfamiliar spectacl . furthermor : concern these last mention leviathan , they have two firm fortress , which , in all human probabl , will for ever remain impregn . and as upon the invas of their valley , the frosti swiss have retreat to their mountain ; so , hunt from the savanna and glade of the middl sea , the whale - bone whale can at last resort to their polar citadel , and dive under the ultim glassi barrier and wall there , come up among ici field and floe ; and in a charm circl of everlast decemb , bid defianc to all pursuit from man . but as perhap fifti of these whale - bone whale are harpoon for one cachalot , some philosoph of the forecastl have conclud that thi posit havoc ha alreadi veri serious diminish their battalion . but though for some time past a number of these whale , not less than 13 , 000 , have been annual slain on the nor '- west coast by the american alon ; yet there are consider which render even thi circumst of littl or no account as an oppos argument in thi matter . natur as it is to be somewhat incredul concern the popul of the more enorm creatur of the globe , yet what shall we say to harto , the historian of goa , when he tell us that at one hunt the king of siam took 4 , 000 eleph ; that in those region eleph are numer as drove of cattl in the temper clime . and there seem no reason to doubt that if these eleph , which have now been hunt for thousand of year , by semirami , by poru , by hannib , and by all the success monarch of the east -- if they still surviv there in great number , much more may the great whale outlast all hunt , sinc he ha a pastur to expati in , which is precis twice as larg as all asia , both america , europ and africa , new holland , and all the isl of the sea combin . moreov : we are to consid , that from the presum great longev of whale , their probabl attain the age of a centuri and more , therefor at ani one period of time , sever distinct adult gener must be contemporari . and what that is , we may soon gain some idea of , by imagin all the grave - yard , cemeteri , and famili vault of creation yield up the live bodi of all the men , women , and children who were aliv seventi - five year ago ; and ad thi countless host to the present human popul of the globe . wherefor , for all these thing , we account the whale immort in hi speci , howev perish in hi individu . He swam the sea befor the contin broke water ; he onc swam over the site of the tuileri , and windsor castl , and the kremlin . In noah ' s flood he despis noah ' s ark ; and if ever the world is to be again flood , like the netherland , to kill off it rat , then the etern whale will still surviv , and rear upon the topmost crest of the equatori flood , spout hi froth defianc to the sky . chapter 106 ahab ' s leg . the precipit manner in which captain ahab had quit the samuel enderbi of london , had not been unattend with some small violenc to hi own person . He had light with such energi upon a thwart of hi boat that hi ivori leg had receiv a half - splinter shock . and when after gain hi own deck , and hi own pivot - hole there , he so vehement wheel round with an urgent command to the steersman ( it wa , as ever , someth about hi not steer inflex enough ) ; then , the alreadi shaken ivori receiv such an addit twist and wrench , that though it still remain entir , and to all appear lusti , yet ahab did not deem it entir trustworthi . and , inde , it seem small matter for wonder , that for all hi pervad , mad reckless , ahab did at time give care heed to the condit of that dead bone upon which he partli stood . for it had not been veri long prior to the pequod ' s sail from nantucket , that he had been found one night lie prone upon the ground , and insens ; by some unknown , and seemingli inexplic , unimagin casualti , hi ivori limb have been so violent displac , that it had stake - wise smitten , and all but pierc hi groin ; nor wa it without extrem difficulti that the agon wound wa entir cure . nor , at the time , had it fail to enter hi monomaniac mind , that all the anguish of that then present suffer wa but the direct issu of a former woe ; and he too plainli seem to see , that as the most poison reptil of the marsh perpetu hi kind as inevit as the sweetest songster of the grove ; so , equal with everi felic , all miser event do natur beget their like . yea , more than equal , thought ahab ; sinc both the ancestri and poster of grief go further than the ancestri and poster of joy . for , not to hint of thi : that it is an infer from certain canon teach , that while some natur enjoy here shall have no children born to them for the other world , but , on the contrari , shall be follow by the joy - childless of all hell ' s despair ; wherea , some guilti mortal miseri shall still fertil beget to themselv an etern progress progeni of grief beyond the grave ; not at all to hint of thi , there still seem an inequ in the deeper analysi of the thing . for , thought ahab , while even the highest earthli felic ever have a certain unsignifi petti lurk in them , but , at bottom , all heartwo , a mystic signific , and , in some men , an archangel grandeur ; so do their dilig trace - out not beli the obviou deduct . To trail the genealog of these high mortal miseri , carri us at last among the sourceless primogenitur of the god ; so that , in the face of all the glad , hay - make sun , and soft cymbal , round harvest - moon , we must need give in to thi : that the god themselv are not for ever glad . the ineffac , sad birth - mark in the brow of man , is but the stamp of sorrow in the signer . unwittingli here a secret ha been divulg , which perhap might more properli , in set way , have been disclos befor . with mani other particular concern ahab , alway had it remain a mysteri to some , whi it wa , that for a certain period , both befor and after the sail of the pequod , he had hidden himself away with such grand - lama - like exclus ; and , for that one interv , sought speechless refug , as it were , among the marbl senat of the dead . captain peleg ' s bruit reason for thi thing appear by no mean adequ ; though , inde , as touch all ahab ' s deeper part , everi revel partook more of signific dark than of explanatori light . but , in the end , it all came out ; thi one matter did , at least . that dire mishap wa at the bottom of hi temporari reclus . and not onli thi , but to that ever - contract , drop circl ashor , who , for ani reason , possess the privileg of a less ban approach to him ; to that timid circl the abov hint casualti -- remain , as it did , moodili unaccount for by ahab -- invest itself with terror , not entir underiv from the land of spirit and of wail . So that , through their zeal for him , they had all conspir , so far as in them lay , to muffl up the knowledg of thi thing from other ; and henc it wa , that not till a consider interv had elaps , did it transpir upon the pequod ' s deck . but be all thi as it may ; let the unseen , ambigu synod in the air , or the vindict princ and potent of fire , have to do or not with earthli ahab , yet , in thi present matter of hi leg , he took plain practic procedur ; -- he call the carpent . and when that functionari appear befor him , he bade him without delay set about make a new leg , and direct the mate to see him suppli with all the stud and joist of jaw - ivori ( sperm whale ) which had thu far been accumul on the voyag , in order that a care select of the stoutest , clearest - grain stuff might be secur . thi done , the carpent receiv order to have the leg complet that night ; and to provid all the fit for it , independ of those pertain to the distrust one in use . moreov , the ship ' s forg wa order to be hoist out of it temporari idl in the hold ; and , to acceler the affair , the blacksmith wa command to proceed at onc to the forg of whatev iron contriv might be need . chapter 107 the carpent . seat thyself sultan among the moon of saturn , and take high abstract man alon ; and he seem a wonder , a grandeur , and a woe . but from the same point , take mankind in mass , and for the most part , they seem a mob of unnecessari duplic , both contemporari and hereditari . but most humbl though he wa , and far from furnish an exampl of the high , human abstract ; the pequod ' s carpent wa no duplic ; henc , he now come in person on thi stage . like all sea - go ship carpent , and more especi those belong to whale vessel , he wa , to a certain off - hand , practic extent , alik experienc in numer trade and call collater to hi own ; the carpent ' s pursuit be the ancient and outbranch trunk of all those numer handicraft which more or less have to do with wood as an auxiliari materi . but , besid the applic to him of the gener remark abov , thi carpent of the pequod wa singularli effici in those thousand nameless mechan emerg continu recur in a larg ship , upon a three or four year ' voyag , in uncivil and far - distant sea . for not to speak of hi readi in ordinari duti : -- repair stove boat , sprung spar , reform the shape of clumsi - blade oar , insert bull ' s eye in the deck , or new tree - nail in the side plank , and other miscellan matter more directli pertain to hi special busi ; he wa moreov unhesitatingli expert in all manner of conflict aptitud , both use and caprici . the one grand stage where he enact all hi variou part so manifold , wa hi vice - bench ; a long rude ponder tabl furnish with sever vice , of differ size , and both of iron and of wood . At all time except when whale were alongsid , thi bench wa secur lash athwartship against the rear of the tri - work . A belay pin is found too larg to be easili insert into it hole : the carpent clap it into one of hi ever - readi vice , and straightway file it smaller . A lost land - bird of strang plumag stray on board , and is made a captiv : out of clean shave rod of right - whale bone , and cross - beam of sperm whale ivori , the carpent make a pagoda - look cage for it . An oarsman sprain hi wrist : the carpent concoct a sooth lotion . stubb long for vermillion star to be paint upon the blade of hi everi oar ; screw each oar in hi big vice of wood , the carpent symmetr suppli the constel . A sailor take a fanci to wear shark - bone ear - ring : the carpent drill hi ear . anoth ha the toothach : the carpent out pincer , and clap one hand upon hi bench bid him be seat there ; but the poor fellow unmanag winc under the unconclud oper ; whirl round the handl of hi wooden vice , the carpent sign him to clap hi jaw in that , if he would have him draw the tooth . thu , thi carpent wa prepar at all point , and alik indiffer and without respect in all . teeth he account bit of ivori ; head he deem but top - block ; men themselv he lightli held for capstan . but while now upon so wide a field thu various accomplish and with such liveli of expert in him , too ; all thi would seem to argu some uncommon vivac of intellig . but not precis so . for noth wa thi man more remark , than for a certain imperson stolid as it were ; imperson , I say ; for it so shade off into the surround infinit of thing , that it seem one with the gener stolid discern in the whole visibl world ; which while pauselessli activ in uncount mode , still etern hold it peac , and ignor you , though you dig foundat for cathedr . yet wa thi half - horribl stolid in him , involv , too , as it appear , an all - ramifi heartless ; -- yet wa it oddli dash at time , with an old , crutch - like , antediluvian , wheez humor , not unstreak now and then with a certain grizzl witti ; such as might have serv to pass the time dure the midnight watch on the beard forecastl of noah ' s ark . wa it that thi old carpent had been a life - long wander , whose much roll , to and fro , not onli had gather no moss ; but what is more , had rub off whatev small outward cling might have origin pertain to him ? He wa a stript abstract ; an unfract integr ; uncompromis as a new - born babe ; live without premedit refer to thi world or the next . you might almost say , that thi strang uncompromised in him involv a sort of unintellig ; for in hi numer trade , he did not seem to work so much by reason or by instinct , or simpli becaus he had been tutor to it , or by ani intermixtur of all these , even or uneven ; but mere by a kind of deaf and dumb , spontan liter process . He wa a pure manipul ; hi brain , if he had ever had one , must have earli ooz along into the muscl of hi finger . He wa like one of those unreason but still highli use , multum IN parvo , sheffield contriv , assum the exterior -- though a littl swell -- of a common pocket knife ; but contain , not onli blade of variou size , but also screw - driver , cork - screw , tweezer , awl , pen , ruler , nail - filer , countersink . So , if hi superior want to use the carpent for a screw - driver , all they had to do wa to open that part of him , and the screw wa fast : or if for tweezer , take him up by the leg , and there they were . yet , as previous hint , thi omnitool , open - and - shut carpent , wa , after all , no mere machin of an automaton . If he did not have a common soul in him , he had a subtl someth that somehow anomal did it duti . what that wa , whether essenc of quicksilv , or a few drop of hartshorn , there is no tell . but there it wa ; and there it had abid for now some sixti year or more . and thi it wa , thi same unaccount , cun life - principl in him ; thi it wa , that kept him a great part of the time soliloqu ; but onli like an unreason wheel , which also hummingli soliloqu ; or rather , hi bodi wa a sentri - box and thi soliloqu on guard there , and talk all the time to keep himself awak . chapter 108 ahab and the carpent . the deck -- first night watch . ( carpent stand befor hi vice - bench , and BY the light OF two lantern busili file the ivori joist for the leg , which joist IS firmli fix IN the vice . slab OF ivori , leather strap , pad , screw , and variou tool OF all sort ly about the bench . forward , the red flame OF the forg IS seen , where the blacksmith IS AT work . ) drat the file , and drat the bone ! that is hard which should be soft , and that is soft which should be hard . So we go , who file old jaw and shinbon . let ' s tri anoth . aye , now , thi work better ( sneez ) . halloa , thi bone dust is ( sneez ) -- whi it ' s ( sneez ) -- ye it ' s ( sneez ) -- bless my soul , it won ' t let me speak ! thi is what an old fellow get now for work in dead lumber . saw a live tree , and you don ' t get thi dust ; amput a live bone , and you don ' t get it ( sneez ) . come , come , you old smut , there , bear a hand , and let ' s have that ferul and buckl - screw ; I ' ll be readi for them present . lucki now ( sneez ) there ' s no knee - joint to make ; that might puzzl a littl ; but a mere shinbon -- whi it ' s easi as make hop - pole ; onli I should like to put a good finish on . time , time ; if I but onli had the time , I could turn him out as neat a leg now as ever ( sneez ) scrape to a ladi in a parlor . those buckskin leg and calv of leg I ' ve seen in shop window wouldn ' t compar at all . they soak water , they do ; and of cours get rheumat , and have to be doctor ( sneez ) with wash and lotion , just like live leg . there ; befor I saw it off , now , I must call hi old mogulship , and see whether the length will be all right ; too short , if anyth , I guess . Ha ! that ' s the heel ; we are in luck ; here he come , or it ' s somebodi els , that ' s certain . ahab ( advanc ) ( dure the ensu scene , the carpent continu sneez AT time ) well , manmak ! just in time , sir . If the captain pleas , I will now mark the length . let me measur , sir . measur for a leg ! good . well , it ' s not the first time . about it ! there ; keep thi finger on it . thi is a cogent vice thou hast here , carpent ; let me feel it grip onc . So , so ; it doe pinch some . Oh , sir , it will break bone -- bewar , bewar ! No fear ; I like a good grip ; I like to feel someth in thi slipperi world that can hold , man . what ' s prometheu about there ? -- the blacksmith , I mean -- what ' s he about ? He must be forg the buckl - screw , sir , now . right . It ' s a partnership ; he suppli the muscl part . He make a fierc red flame there ! aye , sir ; he must have the white heat for thi kind of fine work . Um - m . So he must . I do deem it now a most mean thing , that that old greek , prometheu , who made men , they say , should have been a blacksmith , and anim them with fire ; for what ' s made in fire must properli belong to fire ; and so hell ' s probabl . how the soot fli ! thi must be the remaind the greek made the african of . carpent , when he ' s through with that buckl , tell him to forg a pair of steel shoulder - blade ; there ' s a pedlar aboard with a crush pack . sir ? hold ; while prometheu is about it , I ' ll order a complet man after a desir pattern . imprimi , fifti feet high in hi sock ; then , chest model after the thame tunnel ; then , leg with root to ' em , to stay in one place ; then , arm three feet through the wrist ; no heart at all , brass forehead , and about a quarter of an acr of fine brain ; and let me see -- shall I order eye to see outward ? No , but put a sky - light on top of hi head to illumin inward . there , take the order , and away . now , what ' s he speak about , and who ' s he speak to , I should like to know ? shall I keep stand here ? ( asid ) . ' ti but indiffer architectur to make a blind dome ; here ' s one . No , no , no ; I must have a lantern . Ho , ho ! that ' s it , hey ? here are two , sir ; one will serv my turn . what art thou thrust that thief - catcher into my face for , man ? thrust light is wors than present pistol . I thought , sir , that you spoke to carpent . carpent ? whi that ' s -- but no ; -- a veri tidi , and , I may say , an extrem gentlemanlik sort of busi thou art in here , carpent ; -- or would ' st thou rather work in clay ? sir ? -- clay ? clay , sir ? that ' s mud ; we leav clay to ditcher , sir . the fellow ' s impiou ! what art thou sneez about ? bone is rather dusti , sir . take the hint , then ; and when thou art dead , never buri thyself under live peopl ' s nose . sir ? -- oh ! ah ! -- I guess so ; -- ye -- dear ! look ye , carpent , I dare say thou callest thyself a right good workmanlik workman , eh ? well , then , will it speak thoroughli well for thi work , if , when I come to mount thi leg thou makest , I shall nevertheless feel anoth leg in the same ident place with it ; that is , carpent , my old lost leg ; the flesh and blood one , I mean . canst thou not drive that old adam away ? truli , sir , I begin to understand somewhat now . ye , I have heard someth curiou on that score , sir ; how that a dismast man never entir lose the feel of hi old spar , but it will be still prick him at time . may I humbl ask if it be realli so , sir ? It is , man . look , put thi live leg here in the place where mine onc wa ; so , now , here is onli one distinct leg to the eye , yet two to the soul . where thou feelest tingl life ; there , exactli there , there to a hair , do I . Is ' t a riddl ? I should humbl call it a poser , sir . hist , then . how dost thou know that some entir , live , think thing may not be invis and uninterpenetratingli stand precis where thou now standest ; aye , and stand there in thi spite ? In thi most solitari hour , then , dost thou not fear eavesdropp ? hold , don ' t speak ! and if I still feel the smart of my crush leg , though it be now so long dissolv ; then , whi mayst not thou , carpent , feel the fieri pain of hell for ever , and without a bodi ? hah ! good lord ! truli , sir , if it come to that , I must calcul over again ; I think I didn ' t carri a small figur , sir . look ye , pud - head should never grant premis . -- how long befor the leg is done ? perhap an hour , sir . bungl away at it then , and bring it to me ( turn TO GO ) . Oh , life ! here I am , proud as greek god , and yet stand debtor to thi blockhead for a bone to stand on ! curs be that mortal inter - indebted which will not do away with ledger . I would be free as air ; and I ' m down in the whole world ' s book . I am so rich , I could have given bid for bid with the wealthiest praetorian at the auction of the roman empir ( which wa the world ' s ) ; and yet I owe for the flesh in the tongu I brag with . By heaven ! I ' ll get a crucibl , and into it , and dissolv myself down to one small , compendi vertebra . So . carpent ( resum hi work ) . well , well , well ! stubb know him best of all , and stubb alway say he ' s queer ; say noth but that one suffici littl word queer ; he ' s queer , say stubb ; he ' s queer -- queer , queer ; and keep din it into Mr . starbuck all the time -- queer -- sir -- queer , queer , veri queer . and here ' s hi leg ! ye , now that I think of it , here ' s hi bedfellow ! ha a stick of whale ' s jaw - bone for a wife ! and thi is hi leg ; he ' ll stand on thi . what wa that now about one leg stand in three place , and all three place stand in one hell -- how wa that ? Oh ! I don ' t wonder he look so scorn at me ! I ' m a sort of strang - thought sometim , they say ; but that ' s onli haphazard - like . then , a short , littl old bodi like me , should never undertak to wade out into deep water with tall , heron - built captain ; the water chuck you under the chin pretti quick , and there ' s a great cri for life - boat . and here ' s the heron ' s leg ! long and slim , sure enough ! now , for most folk one pair of leg last a lifetim , and that must be becaus they use them merci , as a tender - heart old ladi use her roli - poli old coach - hors . but ahab ; oh he ' s a hard driver . look , driven one leg to death , and spavin the other for life , and now wear out bone leg by the cord . halloa , there , you smut ! bear a hand there with those screw , and let ' s finish it befor the resurrect fellow come a - call with hi horn for all leg , true or fals , as breweri - men go round collect old beer barrel , to fill ' em up again . what a leg thi is ! It look like a real live leg , file down to noth but the core ; he ' ll be stand on thi to - morrow ; he ' ll be take altitud on it . halloa ! I almost forgot the littl oval slate , smooth ivori , where he figur up the latitud . So , so ; chisel , file , and sand - paper , now ! chapter 109 ahab and starbuck in the cabin . accord to usag they were pump the ship next morn ; and lo ! no inconsider oil came up with the water ; the cask below must have sprung a bad leak . much concern wa shown ; and starbuck went down into the cabin to report thi unfavour affair . * * In sperm - whalemen with ani consider quantiti of oil on board , it is a regular semiweekli duti to conduct a hose into the hold , and drench the cask with sea - water ; which afterward , at vari interv , is remov by the ship ' s pump . herebi the cask are sought to be kept dampli tight ; while by the chang charact of the withdrawn water , the marin readili detect ani seriou leakag in the preciou cargo . now , from the south and west the pequod wa draw nigh to formosa and the bashe isl , between which lie one of the tropic outlet from the china water into the pacif . and so starbuck found ahab with a gener chart of the orient archipelago spread befor him ; and anoth separ one repres the long eastern coast of the japanes island -- niphon , matsmai , and sikok . with hi snow - white new ivori leg brace against the screw leg of hi tabl , and with a long prune - hook of a jack - knife in hi hand , the wondrou old man , with hi back to the gangway door , wa wrinkl hi brow , and trace hi old cours again . `` who ' s there ? '' hear the footstep at the door , but not turn round to it . `` On deck ! begon ! '' `` captain ahab mistak ; it is I . the oil in the hold is leak , sir . We must up burton and break out . '' `` Up burton and break out ? now that we are near japan ; heav - to here for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoop ? '' `` either do that , sir , or wast in one day more oil than we may make good in a year . what we come twenti thousand mile to get is worth save , sir . '' `` So it is , so it is ; if we get it . '' `` I wa speak of the oil in the hold , sir . '' `` and I wa not speak or think of that at all . begon ! let it leak ! I ' m all aleak myself . aye ! leak in leak ! not onli full of leaki cask , but those leaki cask are in a leaki ship ; and that ' s a far wors plight than the pequod ' s , man . yet I don ' t stop to plug my leak ; for who can find it in the deep - load hull ; or how hope to plug it , even if found , in thi life ' s howl gale ? starbuck ! I ' ll not have the burton hoist . '' `` what will the owner say , sir ? '' `` let the owner stand on nantucket beach and outyel the typhoon . what care ahab ? owner , owner ? thou art alway prate to me , starbuck , about those miserli owner , as if the owner were my conscienc . but look ye , the onli real owner of anyth is it command ; and hark ye , my conscienc is in thi ship ' s keel . -- On deck ! '' `` captain ahab , '' said the redden mate , move further into the cabin , with a dare so strang respect and cautiou that it almost seem not onli everi way seek to avoid the slightest outward manifest of itself , but within also seem more than half distrust of itself ; `` A better man than I might well pass over in thee what he would quickli enough resent in a younger man ; aye , and in a happier , captain ahab . '' `` devil ! dost thou then so much as dare to critic think of me ? -- On deck ! '' `` nay , sir , not yet ; I do entreat . and I do dare , sir -- to be forbear ! shall we not understand each other better than hitherto , captain ahab ? '' ahab seiz a load musket from the rack ( form part of most south - sea - men ' s cabin furnitur ) , and point it toward starbuck , exclaim : `` there is one god that is lord over the earth , and one captain that is lord over the pequod . -- On deck ! '' for an instant in the flash eye of the mate , and hi fieri cheek , you would have almost thought that he had realli receiv the blaze of the level tube . but , master hi emot , he half calmli rose , and as he quit the cabin , paus for an instant and said : `` thou hast outrag , not insult me , sir ; but for that I ask thee not to bewar of starbuck ; thou wouldst but laugh ; but let ahab bewar of ahab ; bewar of thyself , old man . '' `` He wax brave , but nevertheless obey ; most care braveri that ! '' murmur ahab , as starbuck disappear . `` what ' s that he said -- ahab bewar of ahab -- there ' s someth there ! '' then unconsci use the musket for a staff , with an iron brow he pace to and fro in the littl cabin ; but present the thick plait of hi forehead relax , and return the gun to the rack , he went to the deck . `` thou art but too good a fellow , starbuck , '' he said lowli to the mate ; then rais hi voic to the crew : `` furl the t ' gallant - sail , and close - reef the top - sail , fore and aft ; back the main - yard ; up burton , and break out in the main - hold . '' It were perhap vain to surmis exactli whi it wa , that as respect starbuck , ahab thu act . It may have been a flash of honesti in him ; or mere prudenti polici which , under the circumst , imperi forbad the slightest symptom of open disaffect , howev transient , in the import chief offic of hi ship . howev it wa , hi order were execut ; and the burton were hoist . chapter 110 queequeg in hi coffin . upon search , it wa found that the cask last struck into the hold were perfectli sound , and that the leak must be further off . So , it be calm weather , they broke out deeper and deeper , disturb the slumber of the huge ground - tier butt ; and from that black midnight send those gigant mole into the daylight abov . So deep did they go ; and so ancient , and corrod , and weedi the aspect of the lowermost puncheon , that you almost look next for some mouldi corner - stone cask contain coin of captain noah , with copi of the post placard , vainli warn the infatu old world from the flood . tierc after tierc , too , of water , and bread , and beef , and shook of stave , and iron bundl of hoop , were hoist out , till at last the pile deck were hard to get about ; and the hollow hull echo under foot , as if you were tread over empti catacomb , and reel and roll in the sea like an air - freight demijohn . top - heavi wa the ship as a dinnerless student with all aristotl in hi head . well wa it that the typhoon did not visit them then . now , at thi time it wa that my poor pagan companion , and fast bosom - friend , queequeg , wa seiz with a fever , which brought him nigh to hi endless end . Be it said , that in thi vocat of whale , sinecur are unknown ; digniti and danger go hand in hand ; till you get to be captain , the higher you rise the harder you toil . So with poor queequeg , who , as harpoon , must not onli face all the rage of the live whale , but -- as we have elsewher seen -- mount hi dead back in a roll sea ; and final descend into the gloom of the hold , and bitterli sweat all day in that subterran confin , resolut manhandl the clumsiest cask and see to their stowag . To be short , among whalemen , the harpoon are the holder , so call . poor queequeg ! when the ship wa about half disembowel , you should have stoop over the hatchway , and peer down upon him there ; where , strip to hi woollen drawer , the tattoo savag wa crawl about amid that damp and slime , like a green spot lizard at the bottom of a well . and a well , or an ice - hous , it somehow prove to him , poor pagan ; where , strang to say , for all the heat of hi sweat , he caught a terribl chill which laps into a fever ; and at last , after some day ' suffer , laid him in hi hammock , close to the veri sill of the door of death . how he wast and wast away in those few long - linger day , till there seem but littl left of him but hi frame and tattoo . but as all els in him thin , and hi cheek - bone grew sharper , hi eye , nevertheless , seem grow fuller and fuller ; they becam of a strang soft of lustr ; and mildli but deepli look out at you there from hi sick , a wondrou testimoni to that immort health in him which could not die , or be weaken . and like circl on the water , which , as they grow fainter , expand ; so hi eye seem round and round , like the ring of etern . An awe that can not be name would steal over you as you sat by the side of thi wane savag , and saw as strang thing in hi face , as ani beheld who were bystand when zoroast die . for whatev is truli wondrou and fear in man , never yet wa put into word or book . and the draw near of death , which alik level all , alik impress all with a last revel , which onli an author from the dead could adequ tell . So that -- let us say it again -- no die chalde or greek had higher and holier thought than those , whose mysteri shade you saw creep over the face of poor queequeg , as he quietli lay in hi sway hammock , and the roll sea seem gentli rock him to hi final rest , and the ocean ' s invis flood - tide lift him higher and higher toward hi destin heaven . not a man of the crew but gave him up ; and , as for queequeg himself , what he thought of hi case wa forcibl shown by a curiou favour he ask . He call one to him in the grey morn watch , when the day wa just break , and take hi hand , said that while in nantucket he had chanc to see certain littl cano of dark wood , like the rich war - wood of hi nativ isl ; and upon inquiri , he had learn that all whalemen who die in nantucket , were laid in those same dark cano , and that the fanci of be so laid had much pleas him ; for it wa not unlik the custom of hi own race , who , after embalm a dead warrior , stretch him out in hi cano , and so left him to be float away to the starri archipelago ; for not onli do they believ that the star are isl , but that far beyond all visibl horizon , their own mild , uncontin sea , interflow with the blue heaven ; and so form the white breaker of the milki way . He ad , that he shudder at the thought of be buri in hi hammock , accord to the usual sea - custom , toss like someth vile to the death - devour shark . No : he desir a cano like those of nantucket , all the more congeni to him , be a whaleman , that like a whale - boat these coffin - cano were without a keel ; though that involv but uncertain steer , and much lee - way adown the dim age . now , when thi strang circumst wa made known aft , the carpent wa at onc command to do queequeg ' s bid , whatev it might includ . there wa some heathenish , coffin - colour old lumber aboard , which , upon a long previou voyag , had been cut from the aborigin grove of the lackaday island , and from these dark plank the coffin wa recommend to be made . No sooner wa the carpent appris of the order , than take hi rule , he forthwith with all the indiffer promptitud of hi charact , proceed into the forecastl and took queequeg ' s measur with great accuraci , regularli chalk queequeg ' s person as he shift the rule . `` Ah ! poor fellow ! he ' ll have to die now , '' ejacul the long island sailor . go to hi vice - bench , the carpent for conveni sake and gener refer , now transferringli measur on it the exact length the coffin wa to be , and then made the transfer perman by cut two notch at it extrem . thi done , he marshal the plank and hi tool , and to work . when the last nail wa driven , and the lid duli plane and fit , he lightli shoulder the coffin and went forward with it , inquir whether they were readi for it yet in that direct . overhear the indign but half - humor cri with which the peopl on deck began to drive the coffin away , queequeg , to everi one ' s constern , command that the thing should be instantli brought to him , nor wa there ani deni him ; see that , of all mortal , some die men are the most tyrann ; and certainli , sinc they will shortli troubl us so littl for evermor , the poor fellow ought to be indulg . lean over in hi hammock , queequeg long regard the coffin with an attent eye . He then call for hi harpoon , had the wooden stock drawn from it , and then had the iron part place in the coffin along with one of the paddl of hi boat . all by hi own request , also , biscuit were then rang round the side within : a flask of fresh water wa place at the head , and a small bag of woodi earth scrape up in the hold at the foot ; and a piec of sail - cloth be roll up for a pillow , queequeg now entreat to be lift into hi final bed , that he might make trial of it comfort , if ani it had . He lay without move a few minut , then told one to go to hi bag and bring out hi littl god , yojo . then cross hi arm on hi breast with yojo between , he call for the coffin lid ( hatch he call it ) to be place over him . the head part turn over with a leather hing , and there lay queequeg in hi coffin with littl but hi compos counten in view . `` rarmai `` ( it will do ; it is easi ) , he murmur at last , and sign to be replac in hi hammock . but ere thi wa done , pip , who had been slili hover near by all thi while , drew nigh to him where he lay , and with soft sob , took him by the hand ; in the other , hold hi tambourin . `` poor rover ! will ye never have done with all thi weari rove ? where go ye now ? but if the current carri ye to those sweet antil where the beach are onli beat with water - lili , will ye do one littl errand for me ? seek out one pip , who ' s now been miss long : I think he ' s in those far antil . If ye find him , then comfort him ; for he must be veri sad ; for look ! he ' s left hi tambourin behind ; -- I found it . rig - a - dig , dig , dig ! now , queequeg , die ; and I ' ll beat ye your die march . '' `` I have heard , '' murmur starbuck , gaze down the scuttl , `` that in violent fever , men , all ignor , have talk in ancient tongu ; and that when the mysteri is probe , it turn out alway that in their wholli forgotten childhood those ancient tongu had been realli spoken in their hear by some lofti scholar . So , to my fond faith , poor pip , in thi strang sweet of hi lunaci , bring heavenli voucher of all our heavenli home . where learn he that , but there ? -- hark ! he speak again : but more wildli now . '' `` form two and two ! let ' s make a gener of him ! Ho , where ' s hi harpoon ? lay it across here . -- rig - a - dig , dig , dig ! huzza ! Oh for a game cock now to sit upon hi head and crow ! queequeg die game ! -- mind ye that ; queequeg die game ! -- take ye good heed of that ; queequeg die game ! I say ; game , game , game ! but base littl pip , he die a coward ; die all a ' shiver ; -- out upon pip ! hark ye ; if ye find pip , tell all the antil he ' s a runaway ; a coward , a coward , a coward ! tell them he jump from a whale - boat ! I ' d never beat my tambourin over base pip , and hail him gener , if he were onc more die here . No , no ! shame upon all coward -- shame upon them ! let ' em go drown like pip , that jump from a whale - boat . shame ! shame ! '' dure all thi , queequeg lay with close eye , as if in a dream . pip wa led away , and the sick man wa replac in hi hammock . but now that he had appar made everi prepar for death ; now that hi coffin wa prove a good fit , queequeg suddenli ralli ; soon there seem no need of the carpent ' s box : and thereupon , when some express their delight surpris , he , in substanc , said , that the caus of hi sudden convalesc wa thi ; -- at a critic moment , he had just recal a littl duti ashor , which he wa leav undon ; and therefor had chang hi mind about die : he could not die yet , he aver . they ask him , then , whether to live or die wa a matter of hi own sovereign will and pleasur . He answer , certainli . In a word , it wa queequeg ' s conceit , that if a man made up hi mind to live , mere sick could not kill him : noth but a whale , or a gale , or some violent , ungovern , unintellig destroy of that sort . now , there is thi noteworthi differ between savag and civil ; that while a sick , civil man may be six month convalesc , gener speak , a sick savag is almost half - well again in a day . So , in good time my queequeg gain strength ; and at length after sit on the windlass for a few indol day ( but eat with a vigor appetit ) he suddenli leap to hi feet , threw out hi arm and leg , gave himself a good stretch , yawn a littl bit , and then spring into the head of hi hoist boat , and pois a harpoon , pronounc himself fit for a fight . with a wild whimsi , he now use hi coffin for a sea - chest ; and empti into it hi canva bag of cloth , set them in order there . mani spare hour he spent , in carv the lid with all manner of grotesqu figur and draw ; and it seem that herebi he wa strive , in hi rude way , to copi part of the twist tattoo on hi bodi . and thi tattoo had been the work of a depart prophet and seer of hi island , who , by those hieroglyph mark , had written out on hi bodi a complet theori of the heaven and the earth , and a mystic treatis on the art of attain truth ; so that queequeg in hi own proper person wa a riddl to unfold ; a wondrou work in one volum ; but whose mysteri not even himself could read , though hi own live heart beat against them ; and these mysteri were therefor destin in the end to moulder away with the live parchment whereon they were inscrib , and so be unsolv to the last . and thi thought it must have been which suggest to ahab that wild exclam of hi , when one morn turn away from survey poor queequeg -- '' Oh , devilish tantal of the god ! '' chapter 111 the pacif . when glide by the bashe isl we emerg at last upon the great south sea ; were it not for other thing , I could have greet my dear pacif with uncount thank , for now the long supplic of my youth wa answer ; that seren ocean roll eastward from me a thousand leagu of blue . there is , one know not what sweet mysteri about thi sea , whose gentli aw stir seem to speak of some hidden soul beneath ; like those fabl undul of the ephesian sod over the buri evangelist St . john . and meet it is , that over these sea - pastur , wide - roll wateri prairi and potter ' field of all four contin , the wave should rise and fall , and ebb and flow unceasingli ; for here , million of mix shade and shadow , drown dream , somnambul , reveri ; all that we call live and soul , lie dream , dream , still ; toss like slumber in their bed ; the ever - roll wave but made so by their restless . To ani medit magian rover , thi seren pacif , onc beheld , must ever after be the sea of hi adopt . It roll the midmost water of the world , the indian ocean and atlant be but it arm . the same wave wash the mole of the new - built californian town , but yesterday plant by the recentest race of men , and lave the fade but still gorgeou skirt of asiat land , older than abraham ; while all between float milki - way of coral isl , and low - lie , endless , unknown archipelago , and impenetr japan . thu thi mysteri , divin pacif zone the world ' s whole bulk about ; make all coast one bay to it ; seem the tide - beat heart of earth . lift by those etern swell , you need must own the seduct god , bow your head to pan . but few thought of pan stir ahab ' s brain , as stand like an iron statu at hi accustom place besid the mizen rig , with one nostril he unthinkingli snuf the sugari musk from the bashe isl ( in whose sweet wood mild lover must be walk ) , and with the other conscious inhal the salt breath of the new found sea ; that sea in which the hate white whale must even then be swim . launch at length upon these almost final water , and glide toward the japanes cruis - ground , the old man ' s purpos intensifi itself . hi firm lip met like the lip of a vice ; the delta of hi forehead ' s vein swell like overladen brook ; in hi veri sleep , hi ring cri ran through the vault hull , `` stern all ! the white whale spout thick blood ! '' chapter 112 the blacksmith . avail himself of the mild , summer - cool weather that now reign in these latitud , and in prepar for the peculiarli activ pursuit shortli to be anticip , perth , the begrim , blister old blacksmith , had not remov hi portabl forg to the hold again , after conclud hi contributori work for ahab ' s leg , but still retain it on deck , fast lash to ringbolt by the foremast ; be now almost incessantli invok by the headsmen , and harpoon , and bowsmen to do some littl job for them ; alter , or repair , or new shape their variou weapon and boat furnitur . often he would be surround by an eager circl , all wait to be serv ; hold boat - spade , pike - head , harpoon , and lanc , and jealous watch hi everi sooti movement , as he toil . nevertheless , thi old man ' s wa a patient hammer wield by a patient arm . No murmur , no impati , no petul did come from him . silent , slow , and solemn ; bow over still further hi chronic broken back , he toil away , as if toil were life itself , and the heavi beat of hi hammer the heavi beat of hi heart . and so it wa . -- most miser ! A peculiar walk in thi old man , a certain slight but pain appear yaw in hi gait , had at an earli period of the voyag excit the curios of the marin . and to the importun of their persist question he had final given in ; and so it came to pass that everi one now knew the shame stori of hi wretch fate . belat , and not innoc , one bitter winter ' s midnight , on the road run between two countri town , the blacksmith half - stupidli felt the deadli numb steal over him , and sought refug in a lean , dilapid barn . the issu wa , the loss of the extrem of both feet . out of thi revel , part by part , at last came out the four act of the glad , and the one long , and as yet uncatastrophi fifth act of the grief of hi life ' s drama . He wa an old man , who , at the age of nearli sixti , had postponedli encount that thing in sorrow ' s technic call ruin . He had been an artisan of fame excel , and with plenti to do ; own a hous and garden ; embrac a youth , daughter - like , love wife , and three blith , ruddi children ; everi sunday went to a cheer - look church , plant in a grove . but one night , under cover of dark , and further conceal in a most cun disguis , a desper burglar slid into hi happi home , and rob them all of everyth . and darker yet to tell , the blacksmith himself did ignorantli conduct thi burglar into hi famili ' s heart . It wa the bottl conjuror ! upon the open of that fatal cork , forth flew the fiend , and shrivel up hi home . now , for prudent , most wise , and econom reason , the blacksmith ' s shop wa in the basement of hi dwell , but with a separ entranc to it ; so that alway had the young and love healthi wife listen with no unhappi nervous , but with vigor pleasur , to the stout ring of her young - arm old husband ' s hammer ; whose reverber , muffl by pass through the floor and wall , came up to her , not unsweetli , in her nurseri ; and so , to stout labor ' s iron lullabi , the blacksmith ' s infant were rock to slumber . Oh , woe on woe ! Oh , death , whi canst thou not sometim be time ? hadst thou taken thi old blacksmith to thyself ere hi full ruin came upon him , then had the young widow had a delici grief , and her orphan a truli vener , legendari sire to dream of in their after year ; and all of them a care - kill compet . but death pluck down some virtuou elder brother , on whose whistl daili toil sole hung the respons of some other famili , and left the wors than useless old man stand , till the hideou rot of life should make him easier to harvest . whi tell the whole ? the blow of the basement hammer everi day grew more and more between ; and each blow everi day grew fainter than the last ; the wife sat frozen at the window , with tearless eye , glitteringli gaze into the weep face of her children ; the bellow fell ; the forg choke up with cinder ; the hous wa sold ; the mother dive down into the long church - yard grass ; her children twice follow her thither ; and the houseless , familyless old man stagger off a vagabond in crape ; hi everi woe unreverenc ; hi grey head a scorn to flaxen curl ! death seem the onli desir sequel for a career like thi ; but death is onli a launch into the region of the strang untri ; it is but the first salut to the possibl of the immens remot , the wild , the wateri , the unshor ; therefor , to the death - long eye of such men , who still have left in them some interior compunct against suicid , doe the all - contribut and all - recept ocean alluringli spread forth hi whole plain of unimagin , take terror , and wonder , new - life adventur ; and from the heart of infinit pacif , the thousand mermaid sing to them -- '' come hither , broken - heart ; here is anoth life without the guilt of intermedi death ; here are wonder supernatur , without die for them . come hither ! buri thyself in a life which , to your now equal abhor and abhor , land world , is more oblivi than death . come hither ! put up thi graveston , too , within the churchyard , and come hither , till we marri thee ! '' hearken to these voic , east and west , by earli sunris , and by fall of eve , the blacksmith ' s soul respond , aye , I come ! and so perth went a - whale . chapter 113 the forg . with mat beard , and swath in a bristl shark - skin apron , about mid - day , perth wa stand between hi forg and anvil , the latter place upon an iron - wood log , with one hand hold a pike - head in the coal , and with the other at hi forg ' s lung , when captain ahab came along , carri in hi hand a small rusti - look leathern bag . while yet a littl distanc from the forg , moodi ahab paus ; till at last , perth , withdraw hi iron from the fire , began hammer it upon the anvil -- the red mass send off the spark in thick hover flight , some of which flew close to ahab . `` are these thi mother carey ' s chicken , perth ? they are alway fli in thi wake ; bird of good omen , too , but not to all ; -- look here , they burn ; but thou -- thou liv ' st among them without a scorch . '' `` becaus I am scorch all over , captain ahab , '' answer perth , rest for a moment on hi hammer ; `` I am past scorch ; not easili can ' st thou scorch a scar . '' `` well , well ; no more . thi shrunk voic sound too calmli , sane woeful to me . In no paradis myself , I am impati of all miseri in other that is not mad . thou should ' st go mad , blacksmith ; say , whi dost thou not go mad ? how can ' st thou endur without be mad ? Do the heaven yet hate thee , that thou can ' st not go mad ? -- what wert thou make there ? '' `` weld an old pike - head , sir ; there were seam and dent in it . '' `` and can ' st thou make it all smooth again , blacksmith , after such hard usag as it had ? '' `` I think so , sir . '' `` and I suppos thou can ' st smooth almost ani seam and dent ; never mind how hard the metal , blacksmith ? '' `` aye , sir , I think I can ; all seam and dent but one . '' `` look ye here , then , '' cri ahab , passion advanc , and lean with both hand on perth ' s shoulder ; `` look ye here -- here -- can ye smooth out a seam like thi , blacksmith , '' sweep one hand across hi rib brow ; `` if thou could ' st , blacksmith , glad enough would I lay my head upon thi anvil , and feel thi heaviest hammer between my eye . answer ! can ' st thou smooth thi seam ? '' `` Oh ! that is the one , sir ! said I not all seam and dent but one ? '' `` aye , blacksmith , it is the one ; aye , man , it is unsmooth ; for though thou onli see ' st it here in my flesh , it ha work down into the bone of my skull -- that is all wrinkl ! but , away with child ' s play ; no more gaff and pike to - day . look ye here ! '' jingl the leathern bag , as if it were full of gold coin . `` I , too , want a harpoon made ; one that a thousand yoke of fiend could not part , perth ; someth that will stick in a whale like hi own fin - bone . there ' s the stuff , '' fling the pouch upon the anvil . `` look ye , blacksmith , these are the gather nail - stubb of the steel shoe of race hors . '' `` hors - shoe stubb , sir ? whi , captain ahab , thou hast here , then , the best and stubbornest stuff we blacksmith ever work . '' `` I know it , old man ; these stubb will weld togeth like glue from the melt bone of murder . quick ! forg me the harpoon . and forg me first , twelv rod for it shank ; then wind , and twist , and hammer these twelv togeth like the yarn and strand of a tow - line . quick ! I ' ll blow the fire . '' when at last the twelv rod were made , ahab tri them , one by one , by spiral them , with hi own hand , round a long , heavi iron bolt . `` A flaw ! '' reject the last one . `` work that over again , perth . '' thi done , perth wa about to begin weld the twelv into one , when ahab stay hi hand , and said he would weld hi own iron . As , then , with regular , gasp hem , he hammer on the anvil , perth pass to him the glow rod , one after the other , and the hard press forg shoot up it intens straight flame , the parse pass silent , and bow over hi head toward the fire , seem invok some curs or some bless on the toil . but , as ahab look up , he slid asid . `` what ' s that bunch of lucif dodg about there for ? '' mutter stubb , look on from the forecastl . `` that parse smell fire like a fuse ; and smell of it himself , like a hot musket ' s powder - pan . '' At last the shank , in one complet rod , receiv it final heat ; and as perth , to temper it , plung it all hiss into the cask of water near by , the scald steam shot up into ahab ' s bent face . `` would ' st thou brand me , perth ? '' winc for a moment with the pain ; `` have I been but forg my own brand - iron , then ? '' `` pray god , not that ; yet I fear someth , captain ahab . Is not thi harpoon for the white whale ? '' `` for the white fiend ! but now for the barb ; thou must make them thyself , man . here are my razor -- the best of steel ; here , and make the barb sharp as the needl - sleet of the ici sea . '' for a moment , the old blacksmith eye the razor as though he would fain not use them . `` take them , man , I have no need for them ; for I now neither shave , sup , nor pray till -- but here -- to work ! '' fashion at last into an arrowi shape , and weld by perth to the shank , the steel soon point the end of the iron ; and as the blacksmith wa about give the barb their final heat , prior to temper them , he cri to ahab to place the water - cask near . `` No , no -- no water for that ; I want it of the true death - temper . ahoy , there ! tashtego , queequeg , daggoo ! what say ye , pagan ! will ye give me as much blood as will cover thi barb ? '' hold it high up . A cluster of dark nod repli , ye . three punctur were made in the heathen flesh , and the white whale ' s barb were then temper . `` ego non baptizo te in nomin patri , sed in nomin diaboli ! '' deliri howl ahab , as the malign iron scorchingli devour the baptism blood . now , muster the spare pole from below , and select one of hickori , with the bark still invest it , ahab fit the end to the socket of the iron . A coil of new tow - line wa then unwound , and some fathom of it taken to the windlass , and stretch to a great tension . press hi foot upon it , till the rope hum like a harp - string , then eagerli bend over it , and see no strand , ahab exclaim , `` good ! and now for the seiz . '' At one extrem the rope wa unstrand , and the separ spread yarn were all braid and woven round the socket of the harpoon ; the pole wa then driven hard up into the socket ; from the lower end the rope wa trace half - way along the pole ' s length , and firmli secur so , with intertwist of twine . thi done , pole , iron , and rope -- like the three fate -- remain insepar , and ahab moodili stalk away with the weapon ; the sound of hi ivori leg , and the sound of the hickori pole , both hollowli ring along everi plank . but ere he enter hi cabin , light , unnatur , half - banter , yet most piteou sound wa heard . Oh , pip ! thi wretch laugh , thi idl but unrest eye ; all thi strang mummeri not unmeaningli blend with the black tragedi of the melancholi ship , and mock it ! chapter 114 the gilder . penetr further and further into the heart of the japanes cruis ground , the pequod wa soon all astir in the fisheri . often , in mild , pleasant weather , for twelv , fifteen , eighteen , and twenti hour on the stretch , they were engag in the boat , steadili pull , or sail , or paddl after the whale , or for an interlud of sixti or seventi minut calmli await their upris ; though with but small success for their pain . At such time , under an abat sun ; afloat all day upon smooth , slow heav swell ; seat in hi boat , light as a birch cano ; and so sociabl mix with the soft wave themselv , that like hearth - stone cat they purr against the gunwal ; these are the time of dreami quietud , when behold the tranquil beauti and brillianc of the ocean ' s skin , one forget the tiger heart that pant beneath it ; and would not willingli rememb , that thi velvet paw but conceal a remorseless fang . these are the time , when in hi whale - boat the rover softli feel a certain filial , confid , land - like feel toward the sea ; that he regard it as so much floweri earth ; and the distant ship reveal onli the top of her mast , seem struggl forward , not through high roll wave , but through the tall grass of a roll prairi : as when the western emigr ' hors onli show their erect ear , while their hidden bodi wide wade through the amaz verdur . the long - drawn virgin vale ; the mild blue hill - side ; as over these there steal the hush , the hum ; you almost swear that play - weari children lie sleep in these solitud , in some glad may - time , when the flower of the wood are pluck . and all thi mix with your most mystic mood ; so that fact and fanci , half - way meet , interpenetr , and form one seamless whole . nor did such sooth scene , howev temporari , fail of at least as temporari an effect on ahab . but if these secret golden key did seem to open in him hi own secret golden treasuri , yet did hi breath upon them prove but tarnish . Oh , grassi glade ! oh , ever vernal endless landscap in the soul ; in ye , -- though long parch by the dead drought of the earthi life , -- in ye , men yet may roll , like young hors in new morn clover ; and for some few fleet moment , feel the cool dew of the life immort on them . would to god these bless calm would last . but the mingl , mingl thread of life are woven by warp and woof : calm cross by storm , a storm for everi calm . there is no steadi unretrac progress in thi life ; we do not advanc through fix gradat , and at the last one paus : -- through infanc ' s unconsci spell , boyhood ' s thoughtless faith , adolesc ' doubt ( the common doom ) , then sceptic , then disbelief , rest at last in manhood ' s ponder repos of If . but onc gone through , we trace the round again ; and are infant , boy , and men , and if etern . where lie the final harbor , whenc we unmoor no more ? In what rapt ether sail the world , of which the weariest will never weari ? where is the foundl ' s father hidden ? our soul are like those orphan whose unwed mother die in bear them : the secret of our patern lie in their grave , and we must there to learn it . and that same day , too , gaze far down from hi boat ' s side into that same golden sea , starbuck lowli murmur : -- `` loveli unfathom , as ever lover saw in hi young bride ' s eye ! -- tell me not of thi teeth - tier shark , and thi kidnap cannib way . let faith oust fact ; let fanci oust memori ; I look deep down and do believ . '' and stubb , fish - like , with sparkl scale , leap up in that same golden light : -- `` I am stubb , and stubb ha hi histori ; but here stubb take oath that he ha alway been jolli ! '' chapter 115 the pequod meet the bachelor . and jolli enough were the sight and the sound that came bear down befor the wind , some few week after ahab ' s harpoon had been weld . It wa a nantucket ship , the bachelor , which had just wedg in her last cask of oil , and bolt down her burst hatch ; and now , in glad holiday apparel , wa joyous , though somewhat vain - glorious , sail round among the wide - separ ship on the ground , previou to point her prow for home . the three men at her mast - head wore long streamer of narrow red bunt at their hat ; from the stern , a whale - boat wa suspend , bottom down ; and hang captiv from the bowsprit wa seen the long lower jaw of the last whale they had slain . signal , ensign , and jack of all colour were fli from her rig , on everi side . sideway lash in each of her three basket top were two barrel of sperm ; abov which , in her top - mast cross - tree , you saw slender breaker of the same preciou fluid ; and nail to her main truck wa a brazen lamp . As wa afterward learn , the bachelor had met with the most surpris success ; all the more wonder , for that while cruis in the same sea numer other vessel had gone entir month without secur a singl fish . not onli had barrel of beef and bread been given away to make room for the far more valuabl sperm , but addit supplement cask had been barter for , from the ship she had met ; and these were stow along the deck , and in the captain ' s and offic ' state - room . even the cabin tabl itself had been knock into kindl - wood ; and the cabin mess dine off the broad head of an oil - butt , lash down to the floor for a centrepiec . In the forecastl , the sailor had actual caulk and pitch their chest , and fill them ; it wa humor ad , that the cook had clap a head on hi largest boiler , and fill it ; that the steward had plug hi spare coffe - pot and fill it ; that the harpoon had head the socket of their iron and fill them ; that inde everyth wa fill with sperm , except the captain ' s pantaloon pocket , and those he reserv to thrust hi hand into , in self - complac testimoni of hi entir satisfact . As thi glad ship of good luck bore down upon the moodi pequod , the barbarian sound of enorm drum came from her forecastl ; and draw still nearer , a crowd of her men were seen stand round her huge tri - pot , which , cover with the parchment - like poke or stomach skin of the black fish , gave forth a loud roar to everi stroke of the clench hand of the crew . On the quarter - deck , the mate and harpoon were danc with the oliv - hu girl who had elop with them from the polynesian isl ; while suspend in an ornament boat , firmli secur aloft between the foremast and mainmast , three long island negro , with glitter fiddl - bow of whale ivori , were presid over the hilari jig . meanwhil , other of the ship ' s compani were tumultu busi at the masonri of the tri - work , from which the huge pot had been remov . you would have almost thought they were pull down the curs bastil , such wild cri they rais , as the now useless brick and mortar were be hurl into the sea . lord and master over all thi scene , the captain stood erect on the ship ' s elev quarter - deck , so that the whole rejoic drama wa full befor him , and seem mere contriv for hi own individu divers . and ahab , he too wa stand on hi quarter - deck , shaggi and black , with a stubborn gloom ; and as the two ship cross each other ' s wake -- one all jubil for thing pass , the other all forebod as to thing to come -- their two captain in themselv imperson the whole strike contrast of the scene . `` come aboard , come aboard ! '' cri the gay bachelor ' s command , lift a glass and a bottl in the air . `` hast seen the white whale ? '' grit ahab in repli . `` No ; onli heard of him ; but don ' t believ in him at all , '' said the other good - humoredli . `` come aboard ! '' `` thou art too damn jolli . sail on . hast lost ani men ? '' `` not enough to speak of -- two island , that ' s all ; -- but come aboard , old hearti , come along . I ' ll soon take that black from your brow . come along , will ye ( merri ' s the play ) ; a full ship and homeward - bound . '' `` how wondrou familiar is a fool ! '' mutter ahab ; then aloud , `` thou art a full ship and homeward bound , thou sayst ; well , then , call me an empti ship , and outward - bound . So go thi way , and I will mine . forward there ! set all sail , and keep her to the wind ! '' and thu , while the one ship went cheerili befor the breez , the other stubbornli fought against it ; and so the two vessel part ; the crew of the pequod look with grave , linger glanc toward the reced bachelor ; but the bachelor ' s men never heed their gaze for the live revelri they were in . and as ahab , lean over the taffrail , eye the homewardbound craft , he took from hi pocket a small vial of sand , and then look from the ship to the vial , seem therebi bring two remot associ togeth , for that vial wa fill with nantucket sound . chapter 116 the dy whale . not seldom in thi life , when , on the right side , fortun ' s favourit sail close by us , we , though all adroop befor , catch somewhat of the rush breez , and joy feel our bag sail fill out . So seem it with the pequod . for next day after encount the gay bachelor , whale were seen and four were slain ; and one of them by ahab . It wa far down the afternoon ; and when all the spear of the crimson fight were done : and float in the love sunset sea and sky , sun and whale both stilli die togeth ; then , such a sweet and such plaintiv , such inwreath orison curl up in that rosi air , that it almost seem as if far over from the deep green convent valley of the manilla isl , the spanish land - breez , wantonli turn sailor , had gone to sea , freight with these vesper hymn . sooth again , but onli sooth to deeper gloom , ahab , who had stern off from the whale , sat intent watch hi final wane from the now tranquil boat . for that strang spectacl observ in all sperm whale die -- the turn sunward of the head , and so expir -- that strang spectacl , beheld of such a placid even , somehow to ahab convey a wondrous unknown befor . `` He turn and turn him to it , -- how slowli , but how steadfastli , hi homag - render and invok brow , with hi last die motion . He too worship fire ; most faith , broad , baroni vassal of the sun ! -- Oh that these too - favour eye should see these too - favour sight . look ! here , far water - lock ; beyond all hum of human weal or woe ; in these most candid and imparti sea ; where to tradit no rock furnish tablet ; where for long chines age , the billow have still roll on speechless and unspoken to , as star that shine upon the niger ' s unknown sourc ; here , too , life die sunward full of faith ; but see ! no sooner dead , than death whirl round the corps , and it head some other way . `` Oh , thou dark hindoo half of natur , who of drown bone hast build thi separ throne somewher in the heart of these unverdur sea ; thou art an infidel , thou queen , and too truli speakest to me in the wide - slaughter typhoon , and the hush burial of it after calm . nor ha thi thi whale sunward turn hi die head , and then gone round again , without a lesson to me . `` Oh , trebli hoop and weld hip of power ! Oh , high aspir , rainbow jet ! -- that one strivest , thi one jettest all in vain ! In vain , oh whale , dost thou seek interced with yon all - quicken sun , that onli call forth life , but give it not again . yet dost thou , darker half , rock me with a prouder , if a darker faith . all thi unnam immingl float beneath me here ; I am buoy by breath of onc live thing , exhal as air , but water now . `` then hail , for ever hail , O sea , in whose etern toss the wild fowl find hi onli rest . born of earth , yet suckl by the sea ; though hill and valley mother me , ye billow are my foster - brother ! '' chapter 117 the whale watch . the four whale slain that even had die wide apart ; one , far to windward ; one , less distant , to leeward ; one ahead ; one astern . these last three were brought alongsid ere nightfal ; but the windward one could not be reach till morn ; and the boat that had kill it lay by it side all night ; and that boat wa ahab ' s . the waif - pole wa thrust upright into the dead whale ' s spout - hole ; and the lantern hang from it top , cast a troubl flicker glare upon the black , glossi back , and far out upon the midnight wave , which gentli chafe the whale ' s broad flank , like soft surf upon a beach . ahab and all hi boat ' s crew seem asleep but the parse ; who crouch in the bow , sat watch the shark , that spectral play round the whale , and tap the light cedar plank with their tail . A sound like the moan in squadron over asphaltit of unforgiven ghost of gomorrah , ran shudder through the air . start from hi slumber , ahab , face to face , saw the parse ; and hoop round by the gloom of the night they seem the last men in a flood world . `` I have dream it again , '' said he . `` Of the hears ? have I not said , old man , that neither hears nor coffin can be thine ? '' `` and who are hears that die on the sea ? '' `` but I said , old man , that ere thou couldst die on thi voyag , two hears must verili be seen by thee on the sea ; the first not made by mortal hand ; and the visibl wood of the last one must be grown in america . '' `` aye , aye ! a strang sight that , parse : -- a hears and it plume float over the ocean with the wave for the pall - bearer . Ha ! such a sight we shall not soon see . '' `` believ it or not , thou canst not die till it be seen , old man . '' `` and what wa that say about thyself ? '' `` though it come to the last , I shall still go befor thee thi pilot . '' `` and when thou art so gone befor -- if that ever befal -- then ere I can follow , thou must still appear to me , to pilot me still ? -- wa it not so ? well , then , did I believ all ye say , oh my pilot ! I have here two pledg that I shall yet slay mobi dick and surviv it . '' `` take anoth pledg , old man , '' said the parse , as hi eye light up like fire - fli in the gloom -- '' hemp onli can kill thee . '' `` the gallow , ye mean . -- I am immort then , on land and on sea , '' cri ahab , with a laugh of deris ; -- '' immort on land and on sea ! '' both were silent again , as one man . the grey dawn came on , and the slumber crew aros from the boat ' s bottom , and ere noon the dead whale wa brought to the ship . chapter 118 the quadrant . the season for the line at length drew near ; and everi day when ahab , come from hi cabin , cast hi eye aloft , the vigil helmsman would ostentati handl hi spoke , and the eager marin quickli run to the brace , and would stand there with all their eye central fix on the nail doubloon ; impati for the order to point the ship ' s prow for the equat . In good time the order came . It wa hard upon high noon ; and ahab , seat in the bow of hi high - hoist boat , wa about take hi wont daili observ of the sun to determin hi latitud . now , in that japanes sea , the day in summer are as freshet of effulg . that unblinkingli vivid japanes sun seem the blaze focu of the glassi ocean ' s immeasur burn - glass . the sky look lacquer ; cloud there are none ; the horizon float ; and thi naked of unreliev radianc is as the insuffer splendor of god ' s throne . well that ahab ' s quadrant wa furnish with colour glass , through which to take sight of that solar fire . So , swing hi seat form to the roll of the ship , and with hi astrolog - look instrument place to hi eye , he remain in that postur for some moment to catch the precis instant when the sun should gain it precis meridian . meantim while hi whole attent wa absorb , the parse wa kneel beneath him on the ship ' s deck , and with face thrown up like ahab ' s , wa eye the same sun with him ; onli the lid of hi eye half hood their orb , and hi wild face wa subdu to an earthli passionless . At length the desir observ wa taken ; and with hi pencil upon hi ivori leg , ahab soon calcul what hi latitud must be at that precis instant . then fall into a moment ' s reveri , he again look up toward the sun and murmur to himself : `` thou sea - mark ! thou high and mighti pilot ! thou tellest me truli where I AM -- but canst thou cast the least hint where I shall be ? Or canst thou tell where some other thing besid me is thi moment live ? where is mobi dick ? thi instant thou must be eye him . these eye of mine look into the veri eye that is even now behold him ; aye , and into the eye that is even now equal behold the object on the unknown , thither side of thee , thou sun ! '' then gaze at hi quadrant , and handl , one after the other , it numer cabalist contriv , he ponder again , and mutter : `` foolish toy ! babi ' playth of haughti admir , and commodor , and captain ; the world brag of thee , of thi cun and might ; but what after all canst thou do , but tell the poor , piti point , where thou thyself happenest to be on thi wide planet , and the hand that hold thee : no ! not one jot more ! thou canst not tell where one drop of water or one grain of sand will be to - morrow noon ; and yet with thi impot thou insultest the sun ! scienc ! curs thee , thou vain toy ; and curs be all the thing that cast man ' s eye aloft to that heaven , whose live vivid but scorch him , as these old eye are even now scorch with thi light , O sun ! level by natur to thi earth ' s horizon are the glanc of man ' s eye ; not shot from the crown of hi head , as if god had meant him to gaze on hi firmament . curs thee , thou quadrant ! '' dash it to the deck , `` no longer will I guid my earthli way by thee ; the level ship ' s compass , and the level deadreckon , by log and by line ; these shall conduct me , and show me my place on the sea . aye , '' light from the boat to the deck , `` thu I trampl on thee , thou paltri thing that feebli pointest on high ; thu I split and destroy thee ! '' As the frantic old man thu spoke and thu trampl with hi live and dead feet , a sneer triumph that seem meant for ahab , and a fatalist despair that seem meant for himself -- these pass over the mute , motionless parse ' s face . unobserv he rose and glide away ; while , awestruck by the aspect of their command , the seamen cluster togeth on the forecastl , till ahab , troubledli pace the deck , shout out -- '' To the brace ! Up helm ! -- squar in ! '' In an instant the yard swung round ; and as the ship half - wheel upon her heel , her three firm - seat grace mast erectli pois upon her long , rib hull , seem as the three horatii pirouet on one suffici steed . stand between the knight - head , starbuck watch the pequod ' s tumultu way , and ahab ' s also , as he went lurch along the deck . `` I have sat befor the dens coal fire and watch it all aglow , full of it torment flame life ; and I have seen it wane at last , down , down , to dumbest dust . old man of ocean ! of all thi fieri life of thine , what will at length remain but one littl heap of ash ! '' `` aye , '' cri stubb , `` but sea - coal ash -- mind ye that , Mr . starbuck -- sea - coal , not your common charcoal . well , well ; I heard ahab mutter , ' here some one thrust these card into these old hand of mine ; swear that I must play them , and no other . ' and damn me , ahab , but thou actest right ; live in the game , and die in it ! '' chapter 119 the candl . warmest clime but nurs the cruellest fang : the tiger of bengal crouch in spice grove of ceaseless verdur . ski the most effulg but basket the deadliest thunder : gorgeou cuba know tornado that never swept tame northern land . So , too , it is , that in these resplend japanes sea the marin encount the direst of all storm , the typhoon . It will sometim burst from out that cloudless sky , like an explod bomb upon a daze and sleepi town . toward even of that day , the pequod wa torn of her canva , and bare - pole wa left to fight a typhoon which had struck her directli ahead . when dark came on , sky and sea roar and split with the thunder , and blaze with the lightn , that show the disabl mast flutter here and there with the rag which the first furi of the tempest had left for it after sport . hold by a shroud , starbuck wa stand on the quarter - deck ; at everi flash of the lightn glanc aloft , to see what addit disast might have befallen the intric hamper there ; while stubb and flask were direct the men in the higher hoist and firmer lash of the boat . but all their pain seem naught . though lift to the veri top of the crane , the windward quarter boat ( ahab ' s ) did not escap . A great roll sea , dash high up against the reel ship ' s high teeter side , stove in the boat ' s bottom at the stern , and left it again , all drip through like a siev . `` bad work , bad work ! Mr . starbuck , '' said stubb , regard the wreck , `` but the sea will have it way . stubb , for one , can ' t fight it . you see , Mr . starbuck , a wave ha such a great long start befor it leap , all round the world it run , and then come the spring ! but as for me , all the start I have to meet it , is just across the deck here . but never mind ; it ' s all in fun : so the old song say ; '' -- ( sing . ) Oh ! jolli is the gale , and a joker is the whale , A ' flourishin ' hi tail , -- such a funni , sporti , gami , jesti , joki , hoki - poki lad , is the ocean , oh ! the scud all a flyin ' , that ' s hi flip onli foamin ' ; when he stir in the spicin ' , -- such a funni , sporti , gami , jesti , joki , hoki - poki lad , is the ocean , oh ! thunder split the ship , but he onli smack hi lip , A tastin ' of thi flip , -- such a funni , sporti , gami , jesti , joki , hoki - poki lad , is the ocean , oh ! `` avast stubb , '' cri starbuck , `` let the typhoon sing , and strike hi harp here in our rig ; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold thi peac . '' `` but I am not a brave man ; never said I wa a brave man ; I am a coward ; and I sing to keep up my spirit . and I tell you what it is , Mr . starbuck , there ' s no way to stop my sing in thi world but to cut my throat . and when that ' s done , ten to one I sing ye the doxolog for a wind - up . '' `` madman ! look through my eye if thou hast none of thine own . '' `` what ! how can you see better of a dark night than anybodi els , never mind how foolish ? '' `` here ! '' cri starbuck , seiz stubb by the shoulder , and point hi hand toward the weather bow , `` markest thou not that the gale come from the eastward , the veri cours ahab is to run for mobi dick ? the veri cours he swung to thi day noon ? now mark hi boat there ; where is that stove ? In the stern - sheet , man ; where he is wont to stand -- hi stand - point is stove , man ! now jump overboard , and sing away , if thou must ! `` I don ' t half understand ye : what ' s in the wind ? '' `` ye , ye , round the cape of good hope is the shortest way to nantucket , '' soliloqu starbuck suddenli , heedless of stubb ' s question . `` the gale that now hammer at us to stave us , we can turn it into a fair wind that will drive us toward home . yonder , to windward , all is black of doom ; but to leeward , homeward -- I see it lighten up there ; but not with the lightn . '' At that moment in one of the interv of profound dark , follow the flash , a voic wa heard at hi side ; and almost at the same instant a volley of thunder peal roll overhead . `` who ' s there ? '' `` old thunder ! '' said ahab , grope hi way along the bulwark to hi pivot - hole ; but suddenli find hi path made plain to him by elbow lanc of fire . now , as the lightn rod to a spire on shore is intend to carri off the peril fluid into the soil ; so the kindr rod which at sea some ship carri to each mast , is intend to conduct it into the water . but as thi conductor must descend to consider depth , that it end may avoid all contact with the hull ; and as moreov , if kept constantli tow there , it would be liabl to mani mishap , besid interf not a littl with some of the rig , and more or less imped the vessel ' s way in the water ; becaus of all thi , the lower part of a ship ' s lightn - rod are not alway overboard ; but are gener made in long slender link , so as to be the more readili haul up into the chain outsid , or thrown down into the sea , as occas may requir . `` the rod ! the rod ! '' cri starbuck to the crew , suddenli admonish to vigil by the vivid lightn that had just been dart flambeaux , to light ahab to hi post . `` are they overboard ? drop them over , fore and aft . quick ! '' `` avast ! '' cri ahab ; `` let ' s have fair play here , though we be the weaker side . yet I ' ll contribut to rais rod on the himmaleh and and , that all the world may be secur ; but out on privileg ! let them be , sir . '' `` look aloft ! '' cri starbuck . `` the corpus ! the corpus ! all the yard - arm were tip with a pallid fire ; and touch at each tri - point lightn - rod - end with three taper white flame , each of the three tall mast wa silent burn in that sulphur air , like three gigant wax taper befor an altar . `` blast the boat ! let it go ! '' cri stubb at thi instant , as a swash sea heav up under hi own littl craft , so that it gunwal violent jam hi hand , as he wa pass a lash . `` blast it ! '' -- but slip backward on the deck , hi uplift eye caught the flame ; and immedi shift hi tone he cri -- '' the corpus have merci on us all ! '' To sailor , oath are household word ; they will swear in the tranc of the calm , and in the teeth of the tempest ; they will imprec curs from the topsail - yard - arm , when most they teeter over to a seeth sea ; but in all my voyag , seldom have I heard a common oath when god ' s burn finger ha been laid on the ship ; when hi `` mene , mene , tekel upharsin `` ha been woven into the shroud and the cordag . while thi pallid wa burn aloft , few word were heard from the enchant crew ; who in one thick cluster stood on the forecastl , all their eye gleam in that pale phosphoresc , like a far away constel of star . reliev against the ghostli light , the gigant jet negro , daggoo , loom up to thrice hi real statur , and seem the black cloud from which the thunder had come . the part mouth of tashtego reveal hi shark - white teeth , which strang gleam as if they too had been tip by corpus ; while lit up by the preternatur light , queequeg ' s tattoo burn like satan blue flame on hi bodi . the tableau all wane at last with the pallid aloft ; and onc more the pequod and everi soul on her deck were wrap in a pall . A moment or two pass , when starbuck , go forward , push against some one . It wa stubb . `` what thinkest thou now , man ; I heard thi cri ; it wa not the same in the song . '' `` No , no , it wasn ' t ; I said the corpus have merci on us all ; and I hope they will , still . but do they onli have merci on long face ? -- have they no bowel for a laugh ? and look ye , Mr . starbuck -- but it ' s too dark to look . hear me , then : I take that mast - head flame we saw for a sign of good luck ; for those mast are root in a hold that is go to be chock a ' block with sperm - oil , d ' ye see ; and so , all that sperm will work up into the mast , like sap in a tree . ye , our three mast will yet be as three spermaceti candl -- that ' s the good promis we saw . '' At that moment starbuck caught sight of stubb ' s face slowli begin to glimmer into sight . glanc upward , he cri : `` see ! see ! '' and onc more the high taper flame were beheld with what seem redoubl supernatur in their pallor . `` the corpus have merci on us all , '' cri stubb , again . At the base of the mainmast , full beneath the doubloon and the flame , the parse wa kneel in ahab ' s front , but with hi head bow away from him ; while near by , from the arch and overhang rig , where they had just been engag secur a spar , a number of the seamen , arrest by the glare , now coher togeth , and hung pendul , like a knot of numb wasp from a droop , orchard twig . In variou enchant attitud , like the stand , or step , or run skeleton in herculaneum , other remain root to the deck ; but all their eye upcast . `` aye , aye , men ! '' cri ahab . `` look up at it ; mark it well ; the white flame but light the way to the white whale ! hand me those mainmast link there ; I would fain feel thi puls , and let mine beat against it ; blood against fire ! So . '' then turn -- the last link held fast in hi left hand , he put hi foot upon the parse ; and with fix upward eye , and high - flung right arm , he stood erect befor the lofti tri - point triniti of flame . `` Oh ! thou clear spirit of clear fire , whom on these sea I as persian onc did worship , till in the sacrament act so burn by thee , that to thi hour I bear the scar ; I now know thee , thou clear spirit , and I now know that thi right worship is defianc . To neither love nor rever wilt thou be kind ; and e ' en for hate thou canst but kill ; and all are kill . No fearless fool now front thee . I own thi speechless , placeless power ; but to the last gasp of my earthquak life will disput it uncondit , unintegr masteri in me . In the midst of the personifi imperson , a person stand here . though but a point at best ; whenceso ' er I came ; whereso ' er I go ; yet while I earthli live , the queenli person live in me , and feel her royal right . but war is pain , and hate is woe . come in thi lowest form of love , and I will kneel and kiss thee ; but at thi highest , come as mere supern power ; and though thou launchest navi of full - freight world , there ' s that in here that still remain indiffer . Oh , thou clear spirit , of thi fire thou madest me , and like a true child of fire , I breath it back to thee . '' [ sudden , repeat flash OF lightn ; the nine flame leap lengthwis TO thrice their previou height ; ahab , with the rest , close hi eye , hi right hand press hard upon them . ] `` I own thi speechless , placeless power ; said I not so ? nor wa it wrung from me ; nor do I now drop these link . thou canst blind ; but I can then grope . thou canst consum ; but I can then be ash . take the homag of these poor eye , and shutter - hand . I would not take it . the lightn flash through my skull ; mine eye - ball ach and ach ; my whole beaten brain seem as behead , and roll on some stun ground . Oh , oh ! yet blindfold , yet will I talk to thee . light though thou be , thou leapest out of dark ; but I am dark leap out of light , leap out of thee ! the javelin ceas ; open eye ; see , or not ? there burn the flame ! Oh , thou magnanim ! now I do glori in my genealog . but thou art but my fieri father ; my sweet mother , I know not . Oh , cruel ! what hast thou done with her ? there lie my puzzl ; but thine is greater . thou knowest not how came ye , henc callest thyself unbegotten ; certainli knowest not thi begin , henc callest thyself unbegun . I know that of me , which thou knowest not of thyself , oh , thou omnipot . there is some unsuffus thing beyond thee , thou clear spirit , to whom all thi etern is but time , all thi creativ mechan . through thee , thi flame self , my scorch eye do dimli see it . Oh , thou foundl fire , thou hermit immemori , thou too hast thi incommunic riddl , thi unparticip grief . here again with haughti agoni , I read my sire . leap ! leap up , and lick the sky ! I leap with thee ; I burn with thee ; would fain be weld with thee ; defyingli I worship thee ! '' `` the boat ! the boat ! '' cri starbuck , `` look at thi boat , old man ! '' ahab ' s harpoon , the one forg at perth ' s fire , remain firmli lash in it conspicu crotch , so that it project beyond hi whale - boat ' s bow ; but the sea that had stove it bottom had caus the loos leather sheath to drop off ; and from the keen steel barb there now came a level flame of pale , fork fire . As the silent harpoon burn there like a serpent ' s tongu , starbuck grasp ahab by the arm -- '' god , god is against thee , old man ; forbear ! ' ti an ill voyag ! ill begun , ill continu ; let me squar the yard , while we may , old man , and make a fair wind of it homeward , to go on a better voyag than thi . '' overhear starbuck , the panic - stricken crew instantli ran to the brace -- though not a sail wa left aloft . for the moment all the aghast mate ' s thought seem their ; they rais a half mutin cri . but dash the rattl lightn link to the deck , and snatch the burn harpoon , ahab wave it like a torch among them ; swear to transfix with it the first sailor that but cast loos a rope ' s end . petrifi by hi aspect , and still more shrink from the fieri dart that he held , the men fell back in dismay , and ahab again spoke : -- `` all your oath to hunt the white whale are as bind as mine ; and heart , soul , and bodi , lung and life , old ahab is bound . and that ye may know to what tune thi heart beat ; look ye here ; thu I blow out the last fear ! '' and with one blast of hi breath he extinguish the flame . As in the hurrican that sweep the plain , men fli the neighborhood of some lone , gigant elm , whose veri height and strength but render it so much the more unsaf , becaus so much the more a mark for thunderbolt ; so at those last word of ahab ' s mani of the marin did run from him in a terror of dismay . chapter 120 the deck toward the end of the first night watch . ahab stand BY the helm . starbuck approach him . We must send down the main - top - sail yard , sir . the band is work loos and the lee lift is half - strand . shall I strike it , sir ? '' `` strike noth ; lash it . If I had sky - sail pole , I ' d sway them up now . '' `` sir ! -- in god ' s name ! -- sir ? '' `` well . '' `` the anchor are work , sir . shall I get them inboard ? '' `` strike noth , and stir noth , but lash everyth . the wind rise , but it ha not got up to my tabl - land yet . quick , and see to it . -- By mast and keel ! he take me for the hunch - back skipper of some coast smack . send down my main - top - sail yard ! Ho , gluepot ! loftiest truck were made for wildest wind , and thi brain - truck of mine now sail amid the cloud - scud . shall I strike that ? Oh , none but coward send down their brain - truck in tempest time . what a hooroosh aloft there ! I would e ' en take it for sublim , did I not know that the colic is a noisi maladi . Oh , take medicin , take medicin ! '' chapter 121 midnight . -- the forecastl bulwark . stubb and flask mount ON them , and pass addit lash over the anchor there hang . No , stubb ; you may pound that knot there as much as you pleas , but you will never pound into me what you were just now say . and how long ago is it sinc you said the veri contrari ? didn ' t you onc say that whatev ship ahab sail in , that ship should pay someth extra on it insur polici , just as though it were load with powder barrel aft and box of lucif forward ? stop , now ; didn ' t you say so ? '' `` well , suppos I did ? what then ? I ' ve part chang my flesh sinc that time , whi not my mind ? besid , suppos we are load with powder barrel aft and lucif forward ; how the devil could the lucif get afir in thi drench spray here ? whi , my littl man , you have pretti red hair , but you couldn ' t get afir now . shake yourself ; you ' re aquariu , or the water - bearer , flask ; might fill pitcher at your coat collar . don ' t you see , then , that for these extra risk the marin insur compani have extra guarante ? here are hydrant , flask . but hark , again , and I ' ll answer ye the other thing . first take your leg off from the crown of the anchor here , though , so I can pass the rope ; now listen . what ' s the mighti differ between hold a mast ' s lightn - rod in the storm , and stand close by a mast that hasn ' t got ani lightn - rod at all in a storm ? don ' t you see , you timber - head , that no harm can come to the holder of the rod , unless the mast is first struck ? what are you talk about , then ? not one ship in a hundr carri rod , and ahab , -- aye , man , and all of us , -- were in no more danger then , in my poor opinion , than all the crew in ten thousand ship now sail the sea . whi , you king - post , you , I suppos you would have everi man in the world go about with a small lightn - rod run up the corner of hi hat , like a militia offic ' s skewer feather , and trail behind like hi sash . whi don ' t ye be sensibl , flask ? it ' s easi to be sensibl ; whi don ' t ye , then ? ani man with half an eye can be sensibl . '' `` I don ' t know that , stubb . you sometim find it rather hard . '' `` ye , when a fellow ' s soak through , it ' s hard to be sensibl , that ' s a fact . and I am about drench with thi spray . never mind ; catch the turn there , and pass it . seem to me we are lash down these anchor now as if they were never go to be use again . ty these two anchor here , flask , seem like tie a man ' s hand behind him . and what big gener hand they are , to be sure . these are your iron fist , hey ? what a hold they have , too ! I wonder , flask , whether the world is anchor anywher ; if she is , she swing with an uncommon long cabl , though . there , hammer that knot down , and we ' ve done . So ; next to touch land , light on deck is the most satisfactori . I say , just wring out my jacket skirt , will ye ? thank ye . they laugh at long - tog so , flask ; but seem to me , a long tail coat ought alway to be worn in all storm afloat . the tail taper down that way , serv to carri off the water , d ' ye see . same with cock hat ; the cock form gabl - end eav - trough , flask . No more monkey - jacket and tarpaulin for me ; I must mount a swallow - tail , and drive down a beaver ; so . halloa ! whew ! there goe my tarpaulin overboard ; lord , lord , that the wind that come from heaven should be so unmannerli ! thi is a nasti night , lad . '' chapter 122 midnight aloft . -- thunder and lightn . the main - top - sail yard . -- tashtego pass new lash around IT . `` Um , um , um . stop that thunder ! plenti too much thunder up here . what ' s the use of thunder ? Um , um , um . We don ' t want thunder ; we want rum ; give us a glass of rum . Um , um , um ! '' chapter 123 the musket . dure the most violent shock of the typhoon , the man at the pequod ' s jaw - bone tiller had sever time been reelingli hurl to the deck by it spasmod motion , even though prevent tackl had been attach to it -- for they were slack -- becaus some play to the tiller wa indispens . In a sever gale like thi , while the ship is but a toss shuttlecock to the blast , it is by no mean uncommon to see the needl in the compass , at interv , go round and round . It wa thu with the pequod ' s ; at almost everi shock the helmsman had not fail to notic the whirl veloc with which they revolv upon the card ; it is a sight that hardli anyon can behold without some sort of unwont emot . some hour after midnight , the typhoon abat so much , that through the strenuou exert of starbuck and stubb -- one engag forward and the other aft -- the shiver remnant of the jib and fore and main - top - sail were cut adrift from the spar , and went eddi away to leeward , like the feather of an albatross , which sometim are cast to the wind when that storm - toss bird is on the wing . the three correspond new sail were now bent and reef , and a storm - trysail wa set further aft ; so that the ship soon went through the water with some precis again ; and the cours -- for the present , east - south - east -- which he wa to steer , if practic , wa onc more given to the helmsman . for dure the violenc of the gale , he had onli steer accord to it vicissitud . but as he wa now bring the ship as near her cours as possibl , watch the compass meanwhil , lo ! a good sign ! the wind seem come round astern ; aye , the foul breez becam fair ! instantli the yard were squar , to the live song of `` HO ! the fair wind ! OH - YE - HO , cheerli men ! '' the crew sing for joy , that so promis an event should so soon have falsifi the evil portent preced it . In complianc with the stand order of hi command -- to report immedi , and at ani one of the twenti - four hour , ani decid chang in the affair of the deck , -- starbuck had no sooner trim the yard to the breez -- howev reluctantli and gloomili , -- than he mechan went below to appris captain ahab of the circumst . ere knock at hi state - room , he involuntarili paus befor it a moment . the cabin lamp -- take long swing thi way and that -- wa burn fit , and cast fit shadow upon the old man ' s bolt door , -- a thin one , with fix blind insert , in place of upper panel . the isol subterran of the cabin made a certain hum silenc to reign there , though it wa hoop round by all the roar of the element . the load musket in the rack were shiningli reveal , as they stood upright against the forward bulkhead . starbuck wa an honest , upright man ; but out of starbuck ' s heart , at that instant when he saw the musket , there strang evolv an evil thought ; but so blent with it neutral or good accompani that for the instant he hardli knew it for itself . `` He would have shot me onc , '' he murmur , `` ye , there ' s the veri musket that he point at me ; -- that one with the stud stock ; let me touch it -- lift it . strang , that I , who have handl so mani deadli lanc , strang , that I should shake so now . load ? I must see . aye , aye ; and powder in the pan ; -- that ' s not good . best spill it ? -- wait . I ' ll cure myself of thi . I ' ll hold the musket boldli while I think . -- I come to report a fair wind to him . but how fair ? fair for death and doom , -- that ' S fair for mobi dick . It ' s a fair wind that ' s onli fair for that accurs fish . -- the veri tube he point at me ! -- the veri one ; thi one -- I hold it here ; he would have kill me with the veri thing I handl now . -- aye and he would fain kill all hi crew . doe he not say he will not strike hi spar to ani gale ? ha he not dash hi heavenli quadrant ? and in these same peril sea , grope he not hi way by mere dead reckon of the error - abound log ? and in thi veri typhoon , did he not swear that he would have no lightn - rod ? but shall thi craze old man be tame suffer to drag a whole ship ' s compani down to doom with him ? -- ye , it would make him the wil murder of thirti men and more , if thi ship come to ani deadli harm ; and come to deadli harm , my soul swear thi ship will , if ahab have hi way . If , then , he were thi instant -- put asid , that crime would not be hi . Ha ! is he mutter in hi sleep ? ye , just there , -- in there , he ' s sleep . sleep ? aye , but still aliv , and soon awak again . I can ' t withstand thee , then , old man . not reason ; not remonstr ; not entreati wilt thou hearken to ; all thi thou scornest . flat obedi to thi own flat command , thi is all thou breathest . aye , and say ' st the men have vow ' d thi vow ; say ' st all of us are ahab . great god forbid ! -- but is there no other way ? no law way ? -- make him a prison to be taken home ? what ! hope to wrest thi old man ' s live power from hi own live hand ? onli a fool would tri it . say he were pinion even ; knot all over with rope and hawser ; chain down to ring - bolt on thi cabin floor ; he would be more hideou than a cage tiger , then . I could not endur the sight ; could not possibl fli hi howl ; all comfort , sleep itself , inestim reason would leav me on the long intoler voyag . what , then , remain ? the land is hundr of leagu away , and lock japan the nearest . I stand alon here upon an open sea , with two ocean and a whole contin between me and law . -- aye , aye , ' ti so . -- Is heaven a murder when it lightn strike a would - be murder in hi bed , tinder sheet and skin togeth ? -- and would I be a murder , then , if `` -- and slowli , stealthili , and half sideway look , he place the load musket ' s end against the door . `` On thi level , ahab ' s hammock swing within ; hi head thi way . A touch , and starbuck may surviv to hug hi wife and child again . -- Oh mari ! mari ! -- boy ! boy ! boy ! -- but if I wake thee not to death , old man , who can tell to what unsound deep starbuck ' s bodi thi day week may sink , with all the crew ! great god , where art thou ? shall I ? shall I ? -- the wind ha gone down and shift , sir ; the fore and main topsail are reef and set ; she head her cours . '' `` stern all ! Oh mobi dick , I clutch thi heart at last ! '' such were the sound that now came hurtl from out the old man ' s torment sleep , as if starbuck ' s voic had caus the long dumb dream to speak . the yet level musket shook like a drunkard ' s arm against the panel ; starbuck seem wrestl with an angel ; but turn from the door , he place the death - tube in it rack , and left the place . `` He ' s too sound asleep , Mr . stubb ; go thou down , and wake him , and tell him . I must see to the deck here . thou know ' st what to say . '' chapter 124 the needl . next morn the not - yet - subsid sea roll in long slow billow of mighti bulk , and strive in the pequod ' s gurgl track , push her on like giant ' palm outspread . the strong , unstagg breez abound so , that sky and air seem vast outbelli sail ; the whole world boom befor the wind . muffl in the full morn light , the invis sun wa onli known by the spread intens of hi place ; where hi bayonet ray move on in stack . emblazon , as of crown babylonian king and queen , reign over everyth . the sea wa as a crucibl of molten gold , that bubblingli leap with light and heat . long maintain an enchant silenc , ahab stood apart ; and everi time the teter ship loweringli pitch down her bowsprit , he turn to eye the bright sun ' s ray produc ahead ; and when she profoundli settl by the stern , he turn behind , and saw the sun ' s rearward place , and how the same yellow ray were blend with hi undevi wake . `` Ha , ha , my ship ! thou mightest well be taken now for the sea - chariot of the sun . Ho , ho ! all ye nation befor my prow , I bring the sun to ye ! yoke on the further billow ; hallo ! a tandem , I drive the sea ! '' but suddenli rein back by some counter thought , he hurri toward the helm , huskili demand how the ship wa head . `` east - sou - east , sir , '' said the frighten steersman . `` thou liest ! '' smite him with hi clench fist . `` head east at thi hour in the morn , and the sun astern ? '' upon thi everi soul wa confound ; for the phenomenon just then observ by ahab had unaccount escap everi one els ; but it veri blind palpabl must have been the caus . thrust hi head half way into the binnacl , ahab caught one glimps of the compass ; hi uplift arm slowli fell ; for a moment he almost seem to stagger . stand behind him starbuck look , and lo ! the two compass point east , and the pequod wa as infal go west . but ere the first wild alarm could get out abroad among the crew , the old man with a rigid laugh exclaim , `` I have it ! It ha happen befor . Mr . starbuck , last night ' s thunder turn our compass -- that ' s all . thou hast befor now heard of such a thing , I take it . '' `` aye ; but never befor ha it happen to me , sir , '' said the pale mate , gloomili . here , it must need be said , that accid like thi have in more than one case occur to ship in violent storm . the magnet energi , as develop in the marin ' s needl , is , as all know , essenti one with the electr beheld in heaven ; henc it is not to be much marvel at , that such thing should be . instanc where the lightn ha actual struck the vessel , so as to smite down some of the spar and rig , the effect upon the needl ha at time been still more fatal ; all it loadston virtu be annihil , so that the befor magnet steel wa of no more use than an old wife ' s knit needl . but in either case , the needl never again , of itself , recov the origin virtu thu mar or lost ; and if the binnacl compass be affect , the same fate reach all the other that may be in the ship ; even were the lowermost one insert into the kelson . deliber stand befor the binnacl , and eye the transpoint compass , the old man , with the sharp of hi extend hand , now took the precis bear of the sun , and satisfi that the needl were exactli invert , shout out hi order for the ship ' s cours to be chang accordingli . the yard were hard up ; and onc more the pequod thrust her undaunt bow into the oppos wind , for the suppos fair one had onli been juggl her . meanwhil , whatev were hi own secret thought , starbuck said noth , but quietli he issu all requisit order ; while stubb and flask -- who in some small degre seem then to be share hi feel -- likewis unmurmuringli acquiesc . As for the men , though some of them lowli rumbl , their fear of ahab wa greater than their fear of fate . but as ever befor , the pagan harpoon remain almost wholli unimpress ; or if impress , it wa onli with a certain magnet shot into their congeni heart from inflex ahab ' s . for a space the old man walk the deck in roll reveri . but chanc to slip with hi ivori heel , he saw the crush copper sight - tube of the quadrant he had the day befor dash to the deck . `` thou poor , proud heaven - gazer and sun ' s pilot ! yesterday I wreck thee , and to - day the compass would fain have wreck me . So , so . but ahab is lord over the level loadston yet . Mr . starbuck -- a lanc without a pole ; a top - maul , and the smallest of the sail - maker ' s needl . quick ! '' accessori , perhap , to the impuls dictat the thing he wa now about to do , were certain prudenti motiv , whose object might have been to reviv the spirit of hi crew by a stroke of hi subtil skill , in a matter so wondrou as that of the invert compass . besid , the old man well knew that to steer by transpoint needl , though clumsili practic , wa not a thing to be pass over by superstiti sailor , without some shudder and evil portent . `` men , '' said he , steadili turn upon the crew , as the mate hand him the thing he had demand , `` my men , the thunder turn old ahab ' s needl ; but out of thi bit of steel ahab can make one of hi own , that will point as true as ani . '' abash glanc of servil wonder were exchang by the sailor , as thi wa said ; and with fascin eye they await whatev magic might follow . but starbuck look away . with a blow from the top - maul ahab knock off the steel head of the lanc , and then hand to the mate the long iron rod remain , bade him hold it upright , without it touch the deck . then , with the maul , after repeatedli smite the upper end of thi iron rod , he place the blunt needl endwis on the top of it , and less strongli hammer that , sever time , the mate still hold the rod as befor . then go through some small strang motion with it -- whether indispens to the magnet of the steel , or mere intend to augment the awe of the crew , is uncertain -- he call for linen thread ; and move to the binnacl , slip out the two revers needl there , and horizont suspend the sail - needl by it middl , over one of the compass - card . At first , the steel went round and round , quiver and vibrat at either end ; but at last it settl to it place , when ahab , who had been intent watch for thi result , step frankli back from the binnacl , and point hi stretch arm toward it , exclaim , -- '' look ye , for yourselv , if ahab be not lord of the level loadston ! the sun is east , and that compass swear it ! '' one after anoth they peer in , for noth but their own eye could persuad such ignor as their , and one after anoth they slunk away . In hi fieri eye of scorn and triumph , you then saw ahab in all hi fatal pride . chapter 125 the log and line . while now the fate pequod had been so long afloat thi voyag , the log and line had but veri seldom been in use . owe to a confid relianc upon other mean of determin the vessel ' s place , some merchantmen , and mani whalemen , especi when cruis , wholli neglect to heav the log ; though at the same time , and frequent more for form ' s sake than anyth els , regularli put down upon the customari slate the cours steer by the ship , as well as the presum averag rate of progress everi hour . It had been thu with the pequod . the wooden reel and angular log attach hung , long untouch , just beneath the rail of the after bulwark . rain and spray had damp it ; sun and wind had warp it ; all the element had combin to rot a thing that hung so idli . but heedless of all thi , hi mood seiz ahab , as he happen to glanc upon the reel , not mani hour after the magnet scene , and he rememb how hi quadrant wa no more , and recal hi frantic oath about the level log and line . the ship wa sail plungingli ; astern the billow roll in riot . `` forward , there ! heav the log ! '' two seamen came . the golden - hu tahitian and the grizzli manxman . `` take the reel , one of ye , I ' ll heav . '' they went toward the extrem stern , on the ship ' s lee side , where the deck , with the obliqu energi of the wind , wa now almost dip into the creami , sidelong - rush sea . the manxman took the reel , and hold it high up , by the project handl - end of the spindl , round which the spool of line revolv , so stood with the angular log hang downward , till ahab advanc to him . ahab stood befor him , and wa lightli unwind some thirti or forti turn to form a preliminari hand - coil to toss overboard , when the old manxman , who wa intent eye both him and the line , made bold to speak . `` sir , I mistrust it ; thi line look far gone , long heat and wet have spoil it . '' `` ' twill hold , old gentleman . long heat and wet , have they spoil thee ? thou seem ' st to hold . Or , truer perhap , life hold thee ; not thou it . '' `` I hold the spool , sir . but just as my captain say . with these grey hair of mine ' ti not worth while disput , ' special with a superior , who ' ll ne ' er confess . '' `` what ' s that ? there now ' s a patch professor in queen natur ' s granit - found colleg ; but methink he ' s too subservi . where wert thou born ? '' `` In the littl rocki isl of man , sir . '' `` excel ! thou ' st hit the world by that . '' `` I know not , sir , but I wa born there . '' `` In the isl of man , hey ? well , the other way , it ' s good . here ' s a man from man ; a man born in onc independ man , and now unman of man ; which is suck in -- by what ? Up with the reel ! the dead , blind wall butt all inquir head at last . Up with it ! So . '' the log wa heav . the loos coil rapidli straighten out in a long drag line astern , and then , instantli , the reel began to whirl . In turn , jerkingli rais and lower by the roll billow , the tow resist of the log caus the old reelman to stagger strang . `` hold hard ! '' snap ! the overstrain line sag down in one long festoon ; the tug log wa gone . `` I crush the quadrant , the thunder turn the needl , and now the mad sea part the log - line . but ahab can mend all . haul in here , tahitian ; reel up , manxman . and look ye , let the carpent make anoth log , and mend thou the line . see to it . '' `` there he goe now ; to him noth ' s happen ; but to me , the skewer seem loosen out of the middl of the world . haul in , haul in , tahitian ! these line run whole , and whirl out : come in broken , and drag slow . Ha , pip ? come to help ; eh , pip ? '' `` pip ? whom call ye pip ? pip jump from the whale - boat . pip ' s miss . let ' s see now if ye haven ' t fish him up here , fisherman . It drag hard ; I guess he ' s hold on . jerk him , tahiti ! jerk him off ; we haul in no coward here . Ho ! there ' s hi arm just break water . A hatchet ! a hatchet ! cut it off -- we haul in no coward here . captain ahab ! sir , sir ! here ' s pip , tri to get on board again . '' `` peac , thou crazi loon , '' cri the manxman , seiz him by the arm . `` away from the quarter - deck ! '' `` the greater idiot ever scold the lesser , '' mutter ahab , advanc . `` hand off from that holi ! where sayest thou pip wa , boy ? `` astern there , sir , astern ! Lo ! lo ! '' `` and who art thou , boy ? I see not my reflect in the vacant pupil of thi eye . Oh god ! that man should be a thing for immort soul to siev through ! who art thou , boy ? '' `` bell - boy , sir ; ship ' s - crier ; ding , dong , ding ! pip ! pip ! pip ! one hundr pound of clay reward for pip ; five feet high -- look cowardli -- quickest known by that ! ding , dong , ding ! who ' s seen pip the coward ? '' `` there can be no heart abov the snow - line . Oh , ye frozen heaven ! look down here . Ye did beget thi luckless child , and have abandon him , ye creativ libertin . here , boy ; ahab ' s cabin shall be pip ' s home henceforth , while ahab live . thou touchest my inmost centr , boy ; thou art tie to me by cord woven of my heart - string . come , let ' s down . '' `` what ' s thi ? here ' s velvet shark - skin , '' intent gaze at ahab ' s hand , and feel it . `` Ah , now , had poor pip but felt so kind a thing as thi , perhap he had ne ' er been lost ! thi seem to me , sir , as a man - rope ; someth that weak soul may hold by . Oh , sir , let old perth now come and rivet these two hand togeth ; the black one with the white , for I will not let thi go . '' `` Oh , boy , nor will I thee , unless I should therebi drag thee to wors horror than are here . come , then , to my cabin . Lo ! ye believ in god all good , and in man all ill , lo you ! see the omnisci god oblivi of suffer man ; and man , though idiot , and know not what he doe , yet full of the sweet thing of love and gratitud . come ! I feel prouder lead thee by thi black hand , than though I grasp an emperor ' s ! '' `` there go two daft one now , '' mutter the old manxman . `` one daft with strength , the other daft with weak . but here ' s the end of the rotten line -- all drip , too . mend it , eh ? I think we had best have a new line altogeth . I ' ll see Mr . stubb about it . '' chapter 126 the life - buoy . steer now south - eastward by ahab ' s level steel , and her progress sole determin by ahab ' s level log and line ; the pequod held on her path toward the equat . make so long a passag through such unfrequ water , descri no ship , and ere long , sideway impel by unvari trade wind , over wave monoton mild ; all these seem the strang calm thing prelud some riotou and desper scene . At last , when the ship drew near to the outskirt , as it were , of the equatori fish - ground , and in the deep dark that goe befor the dawn , wa sail by a cluster of rocki islet ; the watch -- then head by flask -- wa startl by a cri so plaintiv wild and unearthli -- like half - articul wail of the ghost of all herod ' s murder innoc -- that one and all , they start from their reveri , and for the space of some moment stood , or sat , or lean all transfixedli listen , like the carv roman slave , while that wild cri remain within hear . the christian or civil part of the crew said it wa mermaid , and shudder ; but the pagan harpoon remain unappal . yet the grey manxman -- the oldest marin of all -- declar that the wild thrill sound that were heard , were the voic of newli drown men in the sea . below in hi hammock , ahab did not hear of thi till grey dawn , when he came to the deck ; it wa then recount to him by flask , not unaccompani with hint dark mean . He hollowli laugh , and thu explain the wonder . those rocki island the ship had pass were the resort of great number of seal , and some young seal that had lost their dam , or some dam that had lost their cub , must have risen nigh the ship and kept compani with her , cri and sob with their human sort of wail . but thi onli the more affect some of them , becaus most marin cherish a veri superstiti feel about seal , aris not onli from their peculiar tone when in distress , but also from the human look of their round head and semi - intellig face , seen peeringli upris from the water alongsid . In the sea , under certain circumst , seal have more than onc been mistaken for men . but the bode of the crew were destin to receiv a most plausibl confirm in the fate of one of their number that morn . At sun - rise thi man went from hi hammock to hi mast - head at the fore ; and whether it wa that he wa not yet half wake from hi sleep ( for sailor sometim go aloft in a transit state ) , whether it wa thu with the man , there is now no tell ; but , be that as it may , he had not been long at hi perch , when a cri wa heard -- a cri and a rush -- and look up , they saw a fall phantom in the air ; and look down , a littl toss heap of white bubbl in the blue of the sea . the life - buoy -- a long slender cask -- wa drop from the stern , where it alway hung obedi to a cun spring ; but no hand rose to seiz it , and the sun have long beat upon thi cask it had shrunken , so that it slowli fill , and that parch wood also fill at it everi pore ; and the stud iron - bound cask follow the sailor to the bottom , as if to yield him hi pillow , though in sooth but a hard one . and thu the first man of the pequod that mount the mast to look out for the white whale , on the white whale ' s own peculiar ground ; that man wa swallow up in the deep . but few , perhap , thought of that at the time . inde , in some sort , they were not griev at thi event , at least as a portent ; for they regard it , not as a foreshadow of evil in the futur , but as the fulfil of an evil alreadi presag . they declar that now they knew the reason of those wild shriek they had heard the night befor . but again the old manxman said nay . the lost life - buoy wa now to be replac ; starbuck wa direct to see to it ; but as no cask of suffici light could be found , and as in the feverish eager of what seem the approach crisi of the voyag , all hand were impati of ani toil but what wa directli connect with it final end , whatev that might prove to be ; therefor , they were go to leav the ship ' s stern unprovid with a buoy , when by certain strang sign and inuendo queequeg hint a hint concern hi coffin . `` A life - buoy of a coffin ! '' cri starbuck , start . `` rather queer , that , I should say , '' said stubb . `` It will make a good enough one , '' said flask , `` the carpent here can arrang it easili . '' `` bring it up ; there ' s noth els for it , '' said starbuck , after a melancholi paus . `` rig it , carpent ; do not look at me so -- the coffin , I mean . dost thou hear me ? rig it . '' `` and shall I nail down the lid , sir ? '' move hi hand as with a hammer . `` aye . '' `` and shall I caulk the seam , sir ? '' move hi hand as with a caulk - iron . `` aye . '' `` and shall I then pay over the same with pitch , sir ? '' move hi hand as with a pitch - pot . `` away ! what possess thee to thi ? make a life - buoy of the coffin , and no more . -- Mr . stubb , Mr . flask , come forward with me . '' `` He goe off in a huff . the whole he can endur ; at the part he baulk . now I don ' t like thi . I make a leg for captain ahab , and he wear it like a gentleman ; but I make a bandbox for queequeg , and he won ' t put hi head into it . are all my pain to go for noth with that coffin ? and now I ' m order to make a life - buoy of it . It ' s like turn an old coat ; go to bring the flesh on the other side now . I don ' t like thi cobbl sort of busi -- I don ' t like it at all ; it ' s undignifi ; it ' s not my place . let tinker ' brat do tinker ; we are their better . I like to take in hand none but clean , virgin , fair - and - squar mathemat job , someth that regularli begin at the begin , and is at the middl when midway , and come to an end at the conclus ; not a cobbler ' s job , that ' s at an end in the middl , and at the begin at the end . It ' s the old woman ' s trick to be give cobbl job . lord ! what an affect all old women have for tinker . I know an old woman of sixti - five who ran away with a bald - head young tinker onc . and that ' s the reason I never would work for lone widow old women ashor , when I kept my job - shop in the vineyard ; they might have taken it into their lone old head to run off with me . but heigh - ho ! there are no cap at sea but snow - cap . let me see . nail down the lid ; caulk the seam ; pay over the same with pitch ; batten them down tight , and hang it with the snap - spring over the ship ' s stern . were ever such thing done befor with a coffin ? some superstiti old carpent , now , would be tie up in the rig , ere they would do the job . but I ' m made of knotti aroostook hemlock ; I don ' t budg . crupper with a coffin ! sail about with a grave - yard tray ! but never mind . We worker in wood make bridal - bedstead and card - tabl , as well as coffin and hears . We work by the month , or by the job , or by the profit ; not for us to ask the whi and wherefor of our work , unless it be too confound cobbl , and then we stash it if we can . hem ! I ' ll do the job , now , tenderli . I ' ll have me -- let ' s see -- how mani in the ship ' s compani , all told ? but I ' ve forgotten . ani way , I ' ll have me thirti separ , turk ' s - head life - line , each three feet long hang all round to the coffin . then , if the hull go down , there ' ll be thirti live fellow all fight for one coffin , a sight not seen veri often beneath the sun ! come hammer , caulk - iron , pitch - pot , and marl - spike ! let ' s to it . '' chapter 127 the deck . the coffin laid upon two line - tub , between the vice - bench and the open hatchway ; the carpent caulk it seam ; the string OF twist oakum slowli unwind from A larg roll OF IT place IN the bosom OF hi frock . -- ahab come slowli from the cabin - gangway , and hear pip follow him . back , lad ; I will be with ye again present . He goe ! not thi hand compli with my humor more genial than that boy . -- middl aisl of a church ! what ' s here ? '' `` life - buoy , sir . Mr . starbuck ' s order . Oh , look , sir ! bewar the hatchway ! '' `` thank ye , man . thi coffin lie handi to the vault . '' `` sir ? the hatchway ? oh ! So it doe , sir , so it doe . '' `` art not thou the leg - maker ? look , did not thi stump come from thi shop ? '' `` I believ it did , sir ; doe the ferrul stand , sir ? '' `` well enough . but art thou not also the undertak ? '' `` aye , sir ; I patch up thi thing here as a coffin for queequeg ; but they ' ve set me now to turn it into someth els . '' `` then tell me ; art thou not an arrant , all - grasp , intermeddl , monopolis , heathenish old scamp , to be one day make leg , and the next day coffin to clap them in , and yet again life - buoy out of those same coffin ? thou art as unprincipl as the god , and as much of a jack - of - all - trade . '' `` but I do not mean anyth , sir . I do as I do . '' `` the god again . hark ye , dost thou not ever sing work about a coffin ? the titan , they say , hum snatch when chip out the crater for volcano ; and the grave - digger in the play sing , spade in hand . dost thou never ? '' `` sing , sir ? Do I sing ? Oh , I ' m indiffer enough , sir , for that ; but the reason whi the grave - digger made music must have been becaus there wa none in hi spade , sir . but the caulk mallet is full of it . hark to it . '' `` aye , and that ' s becaus the lid there ' s a sound - board ; and what in all thing make the sound - board is thi -- there ' s naught beneath . and yet , a coffin with a bodi in it ring pretti much the same , carpent . hast thou ever help carri a bier , and heard the coffin knock against the churchyard gate , go in ? `` faith , sir , I ' ve -- '' `` faith ? what ' s that ? '' `` whi , faith , sir , it ' s onli a sort of exclam - like -- that ' s all , sir . '' `` Um , um ; go on . '' `` I wa about to say , sir , that -- '' `` art thou a silk - worm ? dost thou spin thi own shroud out of thyself ? look at thi bosom ! despatch ! and get these trap out of sight . '' `` He goe aft . that wa sudden , now ; but squall come sudden in hot latitud . I ' ve heard that the isl of albemarl , one of the gallipago , is cut by the equat right in the middl . seem to me some sort of equat cut yon old man , too , right in hi middl . He ' s alway under the line -- fieri hot , I tell ye ! He ' s look thi way -- come , oakum ; quick . here we go again . thi wooden mallet is the cork , and I ' m the professor of music glass -- tap , tap ! '' ( ahab TO himself . ) `` there ' s a sight ! there ' s a sound ! the grey - head woodpeck tap the hollow tree ! blind and dumb might well be envi now . see ! that thing rest on two line - tub , full of tow - line . A most malici wag , that fellow . rat - tat ! So man ' s second tick ! Oh ! how immateri are all materi ! what thing real are there , but imponder thought ? here now ' s the veri dread symbol of grim death , by a mere hap , made the express sign of the help and hope of most endang life . A life - buoy of a coffin ! doe it go further ? can it be that in some spiritu sens the coffin is , after all , but an immort - preserv ! I ' ll think of that . but no . So far gone am I in the dark side of earth , that it other side , the theoret bright one , seem but uncertain twilight to me . will ye never have done , carpent , with that accurs sound ? I go below ; let me not see that thing here when I return again . now , then , pip , we ' ll talk thi over ; I do suck most wondrou philosophi from thee ! some unknown conduit from the unknown world must empti into thee ! '' chapter 128 the pequod meet the rachel . next day , a larg ship , the rachel , wa descri , bear directli down upon the pequod , all her spar thickli cluster with men . At the time the pequod wa make good speed through the water ; but as the broad - wing windward stranger shot nigh to her , the boast sail all fell togeth as blank bladder that are burst , and all life fled from the smitten hull . `` bad news ; she bring bad news , '' mutter the old manxman . but ere her command , who , with trumpet to mouth , stood up in hi boat ; ere he could hope hail , ahab ' s voic wa heard . `` hast seen the white whale ? '' `` aye , yesterday . have ye seen a whale - boat adrift ? '' throttl hi joy , ahab neg answer thi unexpect question ; and would then have fain board the stranger , when the stranger captain himself , have stop hi vessel ' s way , wa seen descend her side . A few keen pull , and hi boat - hook soon clinch the pequod ' s main - chain , and he sprang to the deck . immedi he wa recognis by ahab for a nantucket he knew . but no formal salut wa exchang . `` where wa he ? -- not kill ! -- not kill ! '' cri ahab , close advanc . `` how wa it ? '' It seem that somewhat late on the afternoon of the day previou , while three of the stranger ' s boat were engag with a shoal of whale , which had led them some four or five mile from the ship ; and while they were yet in swift chase to windward , the white hump and head of mobi dick had suddenli loom up out of the water , not veri far to leeward ; whereupon , the fourth rig boat -- a reserv one -- had been instantli lower in chase . after a keen sail befor the wind , thi fourth boat -- the swiftest keel of all -- seem to have succeed in fasten -- at least , as well as the man at the mast - head could tell anyth about it . In the distanc he saw the diminish dot boat ; and then a swift gleam of bubbl white water ; and after that noth more ; whenc it wa conclud that the stricken whale must have indefinit run away with hi pursuer , as often happen . there wa some apprehens , but no posit alarm , as yet . the recal signal were place in the rig ; dark came on ; and forc to pick up her three far to windward boat -- ere go in quest of the fourth one in the precis opposit direct -- the ship had not onli been necessit to leav that boat to it fate till near midnight , but , for the time , to increas her distanc from it . but the rest of her crew be at last safe aboard , she crowd all sail -- stunsail on stunsail -- after the miss boat ; kindl a fire in her tri - pot for a beacon ; and everi other man aloft on the look - out . but though when she had thu sail a suffici distanc to gain the presum place of the absent one when last seen ; though she then paus to lower her spare boat to pull all around her ; and not find anyth , had again dash on ; again paus , and lower her boat ; and though she had thu continu do till daylight ; yet not the least glimps of the miss keel had been seen . the stori told , the stranger captain immedi went on to reveal hi object in board the pequod . He desir that ship to unit with hi own in the search ; by sail over the sea some four or five mile apart , on parallel line , and so sweep a doubl horizon , as it were . `` I will wager someth now , '' whisper stubb to flask , `` that some one in that miss boat wore off that captain ' s best coat ; mayhap , hi watch -- he ' s so curs anxiou to get it back . who ever heard of two piou whale - ship cruis after one miss whale - boat in the height of the whale season ? see , flask , onli see how pale he look -- pale in the veri button of hi eye -- look -- it wasn ' t the coat -- it must have been the -- '' `` My boy , my own boy is among them . for god ' s sake -- I beg , I conjur `` -- here exclaim the stranger captain to ahab , who thu far had but icili receiv hi petit . `` for eight - and - forti hour let me charter your ship -- I will gladli pay for it , and roundli pay for it -- if there be no other way -- for eight - and - forti hour onli -- onli that -- you must , oh , you must , and you shall do thi thing . '' `` hi son ! '' cri stubb , `` oh , it ' s hi son he ' s lost ! I take back the coat and watch -- what say ahab ? We must save that boy . '' `` He ' s drown with the rest on ' em , last night , '' said the old manx sailor stand behind them ; `` I heard ; all of ye heard their spirit . '' now , as it shortli turn out , what made thi incid of the rachel ' s the more melancholi , wa the circumst , that not onli wa one of the captain ' s son among the number of the miss boat ' s crew ; but among the number of the other boat ' s crew , at the same time , but on the other hand , separ from the ship dure the dark vicissitud of the chase , there had been still anoth son ; as that for a time , the wretch father wa plung to the bottom of the cruellest perplex ; which wa onli solv for him by hi chief mate ' s instinct adopt the ordinari procedur of a whale - ship in such emerg , that is , when place between jeopard but divid boat , alway to pick up the major first . but the captain , for some unknown constitut reason , had refrain from mention all thi , and not till forc to it by ahab ' s ici did he allud to hi one yet miss boy ; a littl lad , but twelv year old , whose father with the earnest but unmisgiv hardihood of a nantucket ' s patern love , had thu earli sought to initi him in the peril and wonder of a vocat almost immemori the destini of all hi race . nor doe it unfrequ occur , that nantucket captain will send a son of such tender age away from them , for a protract three or four year ' voyag in some other ship than their own ; so that their first knowledg of a whaleman ' s career shall be unenerv by ani chanc display of a father ' s natur but untim partial , or undu apprehens and concern . meantim , now the stranger wa still beseech hi poor boon of ahab ; and ahab still stood like an anvil , receiv everi shock , but without the least quiver of hi own . `` I will not go , '' said the stranger , `` till you say aye to me . Do to me as you would have me do to you in the like case . for you too have a boy , captain ahab -- though but a child , and nestl safe at home now -- a child of your old age too -- ye , ye , you relent ; I see it -- run , run , men , now , and stand by to squar in the yard . '' `` avast , '' cri ahab -- '' touch not a rope - yarn `` ; then in a voic that prolongingli mould everi word -- '' captain gardin , I will not do it . even now I lose time . good - bye , good - bye . god bless ye , man , and may I forgiv myself , but I must go . Mr . starbuck , look at the binnacl watch , and in three minut from thi present instant warn off all stranger : then brace forward again , and let the ship sail as befor . '' hurriedli turn , with avert face , he descend into hi cabin , leav the strang captain transfix at thi uncondit and utter reject of hi so earnest suit . but start from hi enchant , gardin silent hurri to the side ; more fell than step into hi boat , and return to hi ship . soon the two ship diverg their wake ; and long as the strang vessel wa in view , she wa seen to yaw hither and thither at everi dark spot , howev small , on the sea . thi way and that her yard were swung round ; starboard and larboard , she continu to tack ; now she beat against a head sea ; and again it push her befor it ; while all the while , her mast and yard were thickli cluster with men , as three tall cherri tree , when the boy are cherri among the bough . but by her still halt cours and wind , woeful way , you plainli saw that thi ship that so wept with spray , still remain without comfort . she wa rachel , weep for her children , becaus they were not . chapter 129 the cabin . ( ahab move TO GO ON deck ; pip catch him BY the hand TO follow . ) lad , lad , I tell thee thou must not follow ahab now . the hour is come when ahab would not scare thee from him , yet would not have thee by him . there is that in thee , poor lad , which I feel too cure to my maladi . like cure like ; and for thi hunt , my maladi becom my most desir health . Do thou abid below here , where they shall serv thee , as if thou wert the captain . aye , lad , thou shalt sit here in my own screw chair ; anoth screw to it , thou must be . '' `` No , no , no ! ye have not a whole bodi , sir ; do ye but use poor me for your one lost leg ; onli tread upon me , sir ; I ask no more , so I remain a part of ye . '' `` Oh ! spite of million villain , thi make me a bigot in the fadeless fidel of man ! -- and a black ! and crazi ! -- but methink like - cure - like appli to him too ; he grow so sane again . '' `` they tell me , sir , that stubb did onc desert poor littl pip , whose drown bone now show white , for all the black of hi live skin . but I will never desert ye , sir , as stubb did him . sir , I must go with ye . '' `` If thou speakest thu to me much more , ahab ' s purpos keel up in him . I tell thee no ; it can not be . '' `` Oh good master , master , master ! `` weep so , and I will murder thee ! have a care , for ahab too is mad . listen , and thou wilt often hear my ivori foot upon the deck , and still know that I am there . and now I quit thee . thi hand ! -- met ! true art thou , lad , as the circumfer to it centr . So : god for ever bless thee ; and if it come to that , -- god for ever save thee , let what will befal . '' ( ahab goe ; pip step one step forward . ) `` here he thi instant stood ; I stand in hi air , -- but I ' m alon . now were even poor pip here I could endur it , but he ' s miss . pip ! pip ! ding , dong , ding ! who ' s seen pip ? He must be up here ; let ' s tri the door . what ? neither lock , nor bolt , nor bar ; and yet there ' s no open it . It must be the spell ; he told me to stay here : aye , and told me thi screw chair wa mine . here , then , I ' ll seat me , against the transom , in the ship ' s full middl , all her keel and her three mast befor me . here , our old sailor say , in their black seventi - four great admir sometim sit at tabl , and lord it over row of captain and lieuten . Ha ! what ' s thi ? epaulet ! epaulet ! the epaulet all come crowd ! pass round the decant ; glad to see ye ; fill up , monsieur ! what an odd feel , now , when a black boy ' s host to white men with gold lace upon their coat ! -- monsieur , have ye seen one pip ? -- a littl negro lad , five feet high , hang - dog look , and cowardli ! jump from a whale - boat onc ; -- seen him ? No ! well then , fill up again , captain , and let ' s drink shame upon all coward ! I name no name . shame upon them ! put one foot upon the tabl . shame upon all coward . -- hist ! abov there , I hear ivori -- Oh , master ! master ! I am inde down - heart when you walk over me . but here I ' ll stay , though thi stern strike rock ; and they bulg through ; and oyster come to join me . '' chapter 130 the hat . and now that at the proper time and place , after so long and wide a preliminari cruis , ahab , -- all other whale water swept -- seem to have chase hi foe into an ocean - fold , to slay him the more secur there ; now , that he found himself hard by the veri latitud and longitud where hi torment wound had been inflict ; now that a vessel had been spoken which on the veri day preced had actual encount mobi dick ; -- and now that all hi success meet with variou ship contrastingli concur to show the demoniac indiffer with which the white whale tore hi hunter , whether sin or sin against ; now it wa that there lurk a someth in the old man ' s eye , which it wa hardli suffer for feebl soul to see . As the unset polar star , which through the livelong , arctic , six month ' night sustain it pierc , steadi , central gaze ; so ahab ' s purpos now fixedli gleam down upon the constant midnight of the gloomi crew . It domin abov them so , that all their bode , doubt , misgiv , fear , were fain to hide beneath their soul , and not sprout forth a singl spear or leaf . In thi foreshadow interv too , all humor , forc or natur , vanish . stubb no more strove to rais a smile ; starbuck no more strove to check one . alik , joy and sorrow , hope and fear , seem ground to finest dust , and powder , for the time , in the clamp mortar of ahab ' s iron soul . like machin , they dumbl move about the deck , ever consciou that the old man ' s despot eye wa on them . but did you deepli scan him in hi more secret confidenti hour ; when he thought no glanc but one wa on him ; then you would have seen that even as ahab ' s eye so awe the crew ' s , the inscrut parse ' s glanc awe hi ; or somehow , at least , in some wild way , at time affect it . such an ad , glide strang began to invest the thin fedallah now ; such ceaseless shudder shook him ; that the men look dubiou at him ; half uncertain , as it seem , whether inde he were a mortal substanc , or els a tremul shadow cast upon the deck by some unseen be ' s bodi . and that shadow wa alway hover there . for not by night , even , had fedallah ever certainli been known to slumber , or go below . He would stand still for hour : but never sat or lean ; hi wan but wondrou eye did plainli say -- We two watchmen never rest . nor , at ani time , by night or day could the marin now step upon the deck , unless ahab wa befor them ; either stand in hi pivot - hole , or exactli pace the plank between two undevi limit , -- the main - mast and the mizen ; or els they saw him stand in the cabin - scuttl , -- hi live foot advanc upon the deck , as if to step ; hi hat slouch heavili over hi eye ; so that howev motionless he stood , howev the day and night were ad on , that he had not swung in hi hammock ; yet hidden beneath that slouch hat , they could never tell unerringli whether , for all thi , hi eye were realli close at time ; or whether he wa still intent scan them ; no matter , though he stood so in the scuttl for a whole hour on the stretch , and the unheed night - damp gather in bead of dew upon that stone - carv coat and hat . the cloth that the night had wet , the next day ' s sunshin dri upon him ; and so , day after day , and night after night ; he went no more beneath the plank ; whatev he want from the cabin that thing he sent for . He ate in the same open air ; that is , hi two onli meal , -- breakfast and dinner : supper he never touch ; nor reap hi beard ; which darkli grew all gnarl , as unearth root of tree blown over , which still grow idli on at nake base , though perish in the upper verdur . but though hi whole life wa now becom one watch on deck ; and though the parse ' s mystic watch wa without intermiss as hi own ; yet these two never seem to speak -- one man to the other -- unless at long interv some pass unmoment matter made it necessari . though such a potent spell seem secretli to join the twain ; openli , and to the awe - struck crew , they seem pole - like asund . If by day they chanc to speak one word ; by night , dumb men were both , so far as concern the slightest verbal interchang . At time , for longest hour , without a singl hail , they stood far part in the starlight ; ahab in hi scuttl , the parse by the mainmast ; but still fixedli gaze upon each other ; as if in the parse ahab saw hi forethrown shadow , in ahab the parse hi abandon substanc . and yet , somehow , did ahab -- in hi own proper self , as daili , hourli , and everi instant , commandingli reveal to hi subordin , -- ahab seem an independ lord ; the parse but hi slave . still again both seem yoke togeth , and an unseen tyrant drive them ; the lean shade side the solid rib . for be thi parse what he may , all rib and keel wa solid ahab . At the first faintest glimmer of the dawn , hi iron voic wa heard from aft , -- '' man the mast - head ! '' -- and all through the day , till after sunset and after twilight , the same voic everi hour , at the strike of the helmsman ' s bell , wa heard -- '' what d ' ye see ? -- sharp ! sharp ! '' but when three or four day had slide by , after meet the children - seek rachel ; and no spout had yet been seen ; the monomaniac old man seem distrust of hi crew ' s fidel ; at least , of nearli all except the pagan harpoon ; he seem to doubt , even , whether stubb and flask might not willingli overlook the sight he sought . but if these suspicion were realli hi , he sagaci refrain from verbal express them , howev hi action might seem to hint them . `` I will have the first sight of the whale myself , '' -- he said . `` aye ! ahab must have the doubloon ! and with hi own hand he rig a nest of basket bowlin ; and send a hand aloft , with a singl sheav block , to secur to the main - mast head , he receiv the two end of the downward - reev rope ; and attach one to hi basket prepar a pin for the other end , in order to fasten it at the rail . thi done , with that end yet in hi hand and stand besid the pin , he look round upon hi crew , sweep from one to the other ; paus hi glanc long upon daggoo , queequeg , tashtego ; but shun fedallah ; and then settl hi firm reli eye upon the chief mate , said , -- '' take the rope , sir -- I give it into thi hand , starbuck . '' then arrang hi person in the basket , he gave the word for them to hoist him to hi perch , starbuck be the one who secur the rope at last ; and afterward stood near it . and thu , with one hand cling round the royal mast , ahab gaze abroad upon the sea for mile and mile , -- ahead , astern , thi side , and that , -- within the wide expand circl command at so great a height . when in work with hi hand at some lofti almost isol place in the rig , which chanc to afford no foothold , the sailor at sea is hoist up to that spot , and sustain there by the rope ; under these circumst , it fasten end on deck is alway given in strict charg to some one man who ha the special watch of it . becaus in such a wilder of run rig , whose variou differ relat aloft can not alway be infal discern by what is seen of them at the deck ; and when the deck - end of these rope are be everi few minut cast down from the fasten , it would be but a natur fatal , if , unprovid with a constant watchman , the hoist sailor should by some careless of the crew be cast adrift and fall all swoop to the sea . So ahab ' s proceed in thi matter were not unusu ; the onli strang thing about them seem to be , that starbuck , almost the one onli man who had ever ventur to oppos him with anyth in the slightest degre approach to decis -- one of those too , whose faith on the look - out he had seem to doubt somewhat ; -- it wa strang , that thi wa the veri man he should select for hi watchman ; freeli give hi whole life into such an otherwis distrust person ' s hand . now , the first time ahab wa perch aloft ; ere he had been there ten minut ; one of those red - bill savag sea - hawk which so often fli incommodi close round the man mast - head of whalemen in these latitud ; one of these bird came wheel and scream round hi head in a maze of untrack swift circl . then it dart a thousand feet straight up into the air ; then spiral downward , and went eddi again round hi head . but with hi gaze fix upon the dim and distant horizon , ahab seem not to mark thi wild bird ; nor , inde , would ani one els have mark it much , it be no uncommon circumst ; onli now almost the least heed eye seem to see some sort of cun mean in almost everi sight . `` your hat , your hat , sir ! '' suddenli cri the sicilian seaman , who be post at the mizen - mast - head , stood directli behind ahab , though somewhat lower than hi level , and with a deep gulf of air divid them . but alreadi the sabl wing wa befor the old man ' s eye ; the long hook bill at hi head : with a scream , the black hawk dart away with hi prize . An eagl flew thrice round tarquin ' s head , remov hi cap to replac it , and thereupon tanaquil , hi wife , declar that tarquin would be king of rome . but onli by the replac of the cap wa that omen account good . ahab ' s hat wa never restor ; the wild hawk flew on and on with it ; far in advanc of the prow : and at last disappear ; while from the point of that disappear , a minut black spot wa dimli discern , fall from that vast height into the sea . chapter 131 the pequod meet the delight . the intens pequod sail on ; the roll wave and day went by ; the life - buoy - coffin still lightli swung ; and anoth ship , most miser misnam the delight , wa descri . As she drew nigh , all eye were fix upon her broad beam , call shear , which , in some whale - ship , cross the quarter - deck at the height of eight or nine feet ; serv to carri the spare , unrig , or disabl boat . upon the stranger ' s shear were beheld the shatter , white rib , and some few splinter plank , of what had onc been a whale - boat ; but you now saw through thi wreck , as plainli as you see through the peel , half - unhing , and bleach skeleton of a hors . `` hast seen the white whale ? '' `` look ! '' repli the hollow - cheek captain from hi taffrail ; and with hi trumpet he point to the wreck . `` hast kill him ? '' `` the harpoon is not yet forg that ever will do that , '' answer the other , sadli glanc upon a round hammock on the deck , whose gather side some noiseless sailor were busi in sew togeth . `` not forg ! '' and snatch perth ' s level iron from the crotch , ahab held it out , exclaim -- '' look ye , nantucket ; here in thi hand I hold hi death ! temper in blood , and temper by lightn are these barb ; and I swear to temper them tripli in that hot place behind the fin , where the white whale most feel hi accurs life ! '' `` then god keep thee , old man -- see ' st thou that `` -- point to the hammock -- '' I buri but one of five stout men , who were aliv onli yesterday ; but were dead ere night . onli that one I buri ; the rest were buri befor they die ; you sail upon their tomb . '' then turn to hi crew -- '' are ye readi there ? place the plank then on the rail , and lift the bodi ; so , then -- Oh ! god `` -- advanc toward the hammock with uplift hand -- '' may the resurrect and the life -- '' `` brace forward ! Up helm ! '' cri ahab like lightn to hi men . but the suddenli start pequod wa not quick enough to escap the sound of the splash that the corps soon made as it struck the sea ; not so quick , inde , but that some of the fli bubbl might have sprinkl her hull with their ghostli baptism . As ahab now glide from the deject delight , the strang life - buoy hang at the pequod ' s stern came into conspicu relief . `` Ha ! yonder ! look yonder , men ! '' cri a forebod voic in her wake . `` In vain , oh , ye stranger , ye fli our sad burial ; ye but turn us your taffrail to show us your coffin ! '' chapter 132 the symphoni . It wa a clear steel - blue day . the firmament of air and sea were hardli separ in that all - pervad azur ; onli , the pensiv air wa transpar pure and soft , with a woman ' s look , and the robust and man - like sea heav with long , strong , linger swell , as samson ' s chest in hi sleep . hither , and thither , on high , glide the snow - white wing of small , unspeckl bird ; these were the gentl thought of the feminin air ; but to and fro in the deep , far down in the bottomless blue , rush mighti leviathan , sword - fish , and shark ; and these were the strong , troubl , murder think of the masculin sea . but though thu contrast within , the contrast wa onli in shade and shadow without ; those two seem one ; it wa onli the sex , as it were , that distinguish them . aloft , like a royal czar and king , the sun seem give thi gentl air to thi bold and roll sea ; even as bride to groom . and at the girdl line of the horizon , a soft and tremul motion -- most seen here at the equat -- denot the fond , throb trust , the love alarm , with which the poor bride gave her bosom away . tie up and twist ; gnarl and knot with wrinkl ; haggardli firm and unyield ; hi eye glow like coal , that still glow in the ash of ruin ; untott ahab stood forth in the clear of the morn ; lift hi splinter helmet of a brow to the fair girl ' s forehead of heaven . Oh , immort infanc , and innoc of the azur ! invis wing creatur that frolic all round us ! sweet childhood of air and sky ! how oblivi were ye of old ahab ' s close - coil woe ! but so have I seen littl miriam and martha , laugh - eye elv , heedlessli gambol around their old sire ; sport with the circl of sing lock which grew on the marg of that burnt - out crater of hi brain . slowli cross the deck from the scuttl , ahab lean over the side and watch how hi shadow in the water sank and sank to hi gaze , the more and the more that he strove to pierc the profund . but the love aroma in that enchant air did at last seem to dispel , for a moment , the canker thing in hi soul . that glad , happi air , that winsom sky , did at last stroke and caress him ; the step - mother world , so long cruel -- forbid -- now threw affection arm round hi stubborn neck , and did seem to joyous sob over him , as if over one , that howev wil and er , she could yet find it in her heart to save and to bless . from beneath hi slouch hat ahab drop a tear into the sea ; nor did all the pacif contain such wealth as that one wee drop . starbuck saw the old man ; saw him , how he heavili lean over the side ; and he seem to hear in hi own true heart the measureless sob that stole out of the centr of the seren around . care not to touch him , or be notic by him , he yet drew near to him , and stood there . ahab turn . `` starbuck ! '' `` sir . '' `` Oh , starbuck ! it is a mild , mild wind , and a mild look sky . On such a day -- veri much such a sweet as thi -- I struck my first whale -- a boy - harpoon of eighteen ! forti -- forti -- forti year ago ! -- ago ! forti year of continu whale ! forti year of privat , and peril , and storm - time ! forti year on the pitiless sea ! for forti year ha ahab forsaken the peac land , for forti year to make war on the horror of the deep ! aye and ye , starbuck , out of those forti year I have not spent three ashor . when I think of thi life I have led ; the desol of solitud it ha been ; the mason , wall - town of a captain ' s exclus , which admit but small entranc to ani sympathi from the green countri without -- oh , weari ! heavi ! guinea - coast slaveri of solitari command ! -- when I think of all thi ; onli half - suspect , not so keenli known to me befor -- and how for forti year I have fed upon dri salt fare -- fit emblem of the dri nourish of my soil ! -- when the poorest landsman ha had fresh fruit to hi daili hand , and broken the world ' s fresh bread to my mouldi crust -- away , whole ocean away , from that young girl - wife I wed past fifti , and sail for cape horn the next day , leav but one dent in my marriag pillow -- wife ? wife ? -- rather a widow with her husband aliv ! aye , I widow that poor girl when I marri her , starbuck ; and then , the mad , the frenzi , the boil blood and the smoke brow , with which , for a thousand lower old ahab ha furious , foamingli chase hi prey -- more a demon than a man ! -- aye , aye ! what a forti year ' fool -- fool -- old fool , ha old ahab been ! whi thi strife of the chase ? whi weari , and palsi the arm at the oar , and the iron , and the lanc ? how the richer or better is ahab now ? behold . Oh , starbuck ! is it not hard , that with thi weari load I bear , one poor leg should have been snatch from under me ? here , brush thi old hair asid ; it blind me , that I seem to weep . lock so grey did never grow but from out some ash ! but do I look veri old , so veri , veri old , starbuck ? I feel deadli faint , bow , and hump , as though I were adam , stagger beneath the pile centuri sinc paradis . god ! god ! god ! -- crack my heart ! -- stave my brain ! -- mockeri ! mockeri ! bitter , bite mockeri of grey hair , have I live enough joy to wear ye ; and seem and feel thu intoler old ? close ! stand close to me , starbuck ; let me look into a human eye ; it is better than to gaze into sea or sky ; better than to gaze upon god . By the green land ; by the bright hearth - stone ! thi is the magic glass , man ; I see my wife and my child in thine eye . No , no ; stay on board , on board ! -- lower not when I do ; when brand ahab give chase to mobi dick . that hazard shall not be thine . No , no ! not with the far away home I see in that eye ! '' `` Oh , my captain ! my captain ! nobl soul ! grand old heart , after all ! whi should ani one give chase to that hate fish ! away with me ! let us fli these deadli water ! let us home ! wife and child , too , are starbuck ' s -- wife and child of hi brotherli , sisterli , play - fellow youth ; even as thine , sir , are the wife and child of thi love , long , patern old age ! away ! let us away ! -- thi instant let me alter the cours ! how cheerili , how hilari , O my captain , would we bowl on our way to see old nantucket again ! I think , sir , they have some such mild blue day , even as thi , in nantucket . '' `` they have , they have . I have seen them -- some summer day in the morn . about thi time -- ye , it is hi noon nap now -- the boy vivaci wake ; sit up in bed ; and hi mother tell him of me , of cannib old me ; how I am abroad upon the deep , but will yet come back to danc him again . '' `` ' ti my mari , my mari herself ! she promis that my boy , everi morn , should be carri to the hill to catch the first glimps of hi father ' s sail ! ye , ye ! no more ! it is done ! we head for nantucket ! come , my captain , studi out the cours , and let us away ! see , see ! the boy ' s face from the window ! the boy ' s hand on the hill ! '' but ahab ' s glanc wa avert ; like a blight fruit tree he shook , and cast hi last , cinder appl to the soil . `` what is it , what nameless , inscrut , unearthli thing is it ; what cozen , hidden lord and master , and cruel , remorseless emperor command me ; that against all natur love and long , I so keep push , and crowd , and jam myself on all the time ; recklessli make me readi to do what in my own proper , natur heart , I durst not so much as dare ? Is ahab , ahab ? Is it I , god , or who , that lift thi arm ? but if the great sun move not of himself ; but is as an errand - boy in heaven ; nor one singl star can revolv , but by some invis power ; how then can thi one small heart beat ; thi one small brain think thought ; unless god doe that beat , doe that think , doe that live , and not I . By heaven , man , we are turn round and round in thi world , like yonder windlass , and fate is the handspik . and all the time , lo ! that smile sky , and thi unsound sea ! look ! see yon albicor ! who put it into him to chase and fang that fli - fish ? where do murder go , man ! who ' s to doom , when the judg himself is drag to the bar ? but it is a mild , mild wind , and a mild look sky ; and the air smell now , as if it blew from a far - away meadow ; they have been make hay somewher under the slope of the and , starbuck , and the mower are sleep among the new - mown hay . sleep ? aye , toil we how we may , we all sleep at last on the field . sleep ? aye , and rust amid green ; as last year ' s scyth flung down , and left in the half - cut swath -- starbuck ! '' but blanch to a corps ' s hue with despair , the mate had stolen away . ahab cross the deck to gaze over on the other side ; but start at two reflect , fix eye in the water there . fedallah wa motionlessli lean over the same rail . chapter 133 the chase -- first day . that night , in the mid - watch , when the old man -- as hi wont at interv -- step forth from the scuttl in which he lean , and went to hi pivot - hole , he suddenli thrust out hi face fierc , snuf up the sea air as a sagaci ship ' s dog will , in draw nigh to some barbar isl . He declar that a whale must be near . soon that peculiar odor , sometim to a great distanc given forth by the live sperm whale , wa palpabl to all the watch ; nor wa ani marin surpris when , after inspect the compass , and then the dog - vane , and then ascertain the precis bear of the odor as nearli as possibl , ahab rapidli order the ship ' s cours to be slightli alter , and the sail to be shorten . the acut polici dictat these movement wa suffici vindic at daybreak , by the sight of a long sleek on the sea directli and lengthwis ahead , smooth as oil , and resembl in the pleat wateri wrinkl border it , the polish metal - like mark of some swift tide - rip , at the mouth of a deep , rapid stream . `` man the mast - head ! call all hand ! '' thunder with the butt of three club handspik on the forecastl deck , daggoo rous the sleeper with such judgment clap that they seem to exhal from the scuttl , so instantan did they appear with their cloth in their hand . `` what d ' ye see ? '' cri ahab , flatten hi face to the sky . `` noth , noth sir ! '' wa the sound hail down in repli . `` T ' gallant sail ! -- stunsail ! alow and aloft , and on both side ! '' all sail be set , he now cast loos the life - line , reserv for sway him to the main royal - mast head ; and in a few moment they were hoist him thither , when , while but two third of the way aloft , and while peer ahead through the horizont vacanc between the main - top - sail and top - gallant - sail , he rais a gull - like cri in the air . `` there she blow ! -- there she blow ! A hump like a snow - hill ! It is mobi dick ! '' fire by the cri which seem simultan taken up by the three look - out , the men on deck rush to the rig to behold the famou whale they had so long been pursu . ahab had now gain hi final perch , some feet abov the other look - out , tashtego stand just beneath him on the cap of the top - gallant - mast , so that the indian ' s head wa almost on a level with ahab ' s heel . from thi height the whale wa now seen some mile or so ahead , at everi roll of the sea reveal hi high sparkl hump , and regularli jet hi silent spout into the air . To the credul marin it seem the same silent spout they had so long ago beheld in the moonlit atlant and indian ocean . `` and did none of ye see it befor ? '' cri ahab , hail the perch men all around him . `` I saw him almost that same instant , sir , that captain ahab did , and I cri out , '' said tashtego . `` not the same instant ; not the same -- no , the doubloon is mine , fate reserv the doubloon for me . I onli ; none of ye could have rais the white whale first . there she blow ! -- there she blow ! -- there she blow ! there again ! -- there again ! '' he cri , in long - drawn , linger , method tone , attun to the gradual prolong of the whale ' s visibl jet . `` He ' s go to sound ! In stunsail ! down top - gallant - sail ! stand by three boat . Mr . starbuck , rememb , stay on board , and keep the ship . helm there ! luff , luff a point ! So ; steadi , man , steadi ! there go fluke ! No , no ; onli black water ! all readi the boat there ? stand by , stand by ! lower me , Mr . starbuck ; lower , lower , -- quick , quicker ! '' and he slid through the air to the deck . `` He is head straight to leeward , sir , '' cri stubb , `` right away from us ; can not have seen the ship yet . '' `` Be dumb , man ! stand by the brace ! hard down the helm ! -- brace up ! shiver her ! -- shiver her ! -- So ; well that ! boat , boat ! '' soon all the boat but starbuck ' s were drop ; all the boat - sail set -- all the paddl pli ; with rippl swift , shoot to leeward ; and ahab head the onset . A pale , death - glimmer lit up fedallah ' s sunken eye ; a hideou motion gnaw hi mouth . like noiseless nautilu shell , their light prow sped through the sea ; but onli slowli they near the foe . As they near him , the ocean grew still more smooth ; seem draw a carpet over it wave ; seem a noon - meadow , so seren it spread . At length the breathless hunter came so nigh hi seemingli unsuspect prey , that hi entir dazzl hump wa distinctli visibl , slide along the sea as if an isol thing , and continu set in a revolv ring of finest , fleeci , greenish foam . He saw the vast , involv wrinkl of the slightli project head beyond . befor it , far out on the soft turkish - rug water , went the glisten white shadow from hi broad , milki forehead , a music rippl play accompani the shade ; and behind , the blue water interchang flow over into the move valley of hi steadi wake ; and on either hand bright bubbl aros and danc by hi side . but these were broken again by the light toe of hundr of gay fowl softli feather the sea , altern with their fit flight ; and like to some flag - staff rise from the paint hull of an argosi , the tall but shatter pole of a recent lanc project from the white whale ' s back ; and at interv one of the cloud of soft - to fowl hover , and to and fro skim like a canopi over the fish , silent perch and rock on thi pole , the long tail feather stream like pennon . A gentl joyous -- a mighti mild of repos in swift , invest the glide whale . not the white bull jupit swim away with ravish europa cling to hi grace horn ; hi love , leer eye sideway intent upon the maid ; with smooth bewitch fleet , rippl straight for the nuptial bower in crete ; not jove , not that great majesti suprem ! did surpass the glorifi white whale as he so divin swam . On each soft side -- coincid with the part swell , that but onc leav him , then flow so wide away -- on each bright side , the whale shed off entic . No wonder there had been some among the hunter who namelessli transport and allur by all thi seren , had ventur to assail it ; but had fatal found that quietud but the vestur of tornado . yet calm , entic calm , oh , whale ! thou glidest on , to all who for the first time eye thee , no matter how mani in that same way thou may ' st have bejuggl and destroy befor . and thu , through the seren tranquil of the tropic sea , among wave whose hand - clap were suspend by exceed raptur , mobi dick move on , still withhold from sight the full terror of hi submerg trunk , entir hide the wrench hideous of hi jaw . but soon the fore part of him slowli rose from the water ; for an instant hi whole marbleiz bodi form a high arch , like virginia ' s natur bridg , and warningli wave hi banner fluke in the air , the grand god reveal himself , sound , and went out of sight . hoveringli halt , and dip on the wing , the white sea - fowl longingli linger over the agit pool that he left . with oar apeak , and paddl down , the sheet of their sail adrift , the three boat now stilli float , await mobi dick ' s reappear . `` An hour , '' said ahab , stand root in hi boat ' s stern ; and he gaze beyond the whale ' s place , toward the dim blue space and wide woo vacanc to leeward . It wa onli an instant ; for again hi eye seem whirl round in hi head as he swept the wateri circl . the breez now freshen ; the sea began to swell . `` the bird ! -- the bird ! '' cri tashtego . In long indian file , as when heron take wing , the white bird were now all fli toward ahab ' s boat ; and when within a few yard began flutter over the water there , wheel round and round , with joyou , expect cri . their vision wa keener than man ' s ; ahab could discov no sign in the sea . but suddenli as he peer down and down into it depth , he profoundli saw a white live spot no bigger than a white weasel , with wonder celer upris , and magnifi as it rose , till it turn , and then there were plainli reveal two long crook row of white , glisten teeth , float up from the undiscover bottom . It wa mobi dick ' s open mouth and scroll jaw ; hi vast , shadow bulk still half blend with the blue of the sea . the glitter mouth yawn beneath the boat like an open - door marbl tomb ; and give one sidelong sweep with hi steer oar , ahab whirl the craft asid from thi tremend apparit . then , call upon fedallah to chang place with him , went forward to the bow , and seiz perth ' s harpoon , command hi crew to grasp their oar and stand by to stern . now , by reason of thi time spin round the boat upon it axi , it bow , by anticip , wa made to face the whale ' s head while yet under water . but as if perceiv thi stratagem , mobi dick , with that malici intellig ascrib to him , sidelingli transplant himself , as it were , in an instant , shoot hi pleat head lengthwis beneath the boat . through and through ; through everi plank and each rib , it thrill for an instant , the whale obliqu lie on hi back , in the manner of a bite shark , slowli and feelingli take it bow full within hi mouth , so that the long , narrow , scroll lower jaw curl high up into the open air , and one of the teeth caught in a row - lock . the bluish pearl - white of the insid of the jaw wa within six inch of ahab ' s head , and reach higher than that . In thi attitud the white whale now shook the slight cedar as a mildli cruel cat her mous . with unastonish eye fedallah gaze , and cross hi arm ; but the tiger - yellow crew were tumbl over each other ' s head to gain the uttermost stern . and now , while both elast gunwal were spring in and out , as the whale dalli with the doom craft in thi devilish way ; and from hi bodi be submerg beneath the boat , he could not be dart at from the bow , for the bow were almost insid of him , as it were ; and while the other boat involuntarili paus , as befor a quick crisi imposs to withstand , then it wa that monomaniac ahab , furiou with thi tantal vicin of hi foe , which place him all aliv and helpless in the veri jaw he hate ; frenzi with all thi , he seiz the long bone with hi nake hand , and wildli strove to wrench it from it gripe . As now he thu vainli strove , the jaw slip from him ; the frail gunwal bent in , collaps , and snap , as both jaw , like an enorm shear , slide further aft , bit the craft complet in twain , and lock themselv fast again in the sea , midway between the two float wreck . these float asid , the broken end droop , the crew at the stern - wreck cling to the gunwal , and strive to hold fast to the oar to lash them across . At that prelud moment , ere the boat wa yet snap , ahab , the first to perceiv the whale ' s intent , by the crafti uprais of hi head , a movement that loos hi hold for the time ; at that moment hi hand had made one final effort to push the boat out of the bite . but onli slip further into the whale ' s mouth , and tilt over sideway as it slip , the boat had shaken off hi hold on the jaw ; spill him out of it , as he lean to the push ; and so he fell flat - face upon the sea . ripplingli withdraw from hi prey , mobi dick now lay at a littl distanc , vertic thrust hi oblong white head up and down in the billow ; and at the same time slowli revolv hi whole spindl bodi ; so that when hi vast wrinkl forehead rose -- some twenti or more feet out of the water -- the now rise swell , with all their confluent wave , dazzlingli broke against it ; vindict toss their shiver spray still higher into the air . * So , in a gale , the but half baffl channel billow onli recoil from the base of the eddyston , triumphantli to overleap it summit with their scud . * thi motion is peculiar to the sperm whale . It receiv it design ( pitchpol ) from it be liken to that preliminari up - and - down pois of the whale - lanc , in the exercis call pitchpol , previous describ . By thi motion the whale must best and most comprehens view whatev object may be encircl him . but soon resum hi horizont attitud , mobi dick swam swiftli round and round the wreck crew ; sideway churn the water in hi veng wake , as if lash himself up to still anoth and more deadli assault . the sight of the splinter boat seem to madden him , as the blood of grape and mulberri cast befor antiochu ' s eleph in the book of maccabe . meanwhil ahab half smother in the foam of the whale ' s insol tail , and too much of a crippl to swim , -- though he could still keep afloat , even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that ; helpless ahab ' s head wa seen , like a toss bubbl which the least chanc shock might burst . from the boat ' s fragmentari stern , fedallah incuri and mildli eye him ; the cling crew , at the other drift end , could not succor him ; more than enough wa it for them to look to themselv . for so revolvingli appal wa the white whale ' s aspect , and so planetarili swift the ever - contract circl he made , that he seem horizont swoop upon them . and though the other boat , unharm , still hover hard by ; still they dare not pull into the eddi to strike , lest that should be the signal for the instant destruct of the jeopard castaway , ahab and all ; nor in that case could they themselv hope to escap . with strain eye , then , they remain on the outer edg of the dire zone , whose centr had now becom the old man ' s head . meantim , from the begin all thi had been descri from the ship ' s mast head ; and squar her yard , she had born down upon the scene ; and wa now so nigh , that ahab in the water hail her ! -- '' sail on the `` -- but that moment a break sea dash on him from mobi dick , and whelm him for the time . but struggl out of it again , and chanc to rise on a tower crest , he shout , -- '' sail on the whale ! -- drive him off ! '' the pequod ' s prow were point ; and break up the charm circl , she effectu part the white whale from hi victim . As he sullenli swam off , the boat flew to the rescu . drag into stubb ' s boat with blood - shot , blind eye , the white brine cake in hi wrinkl ; the long tension of ahab ' s bodili strength did crack , and helplessli he yield to hi bodi ' s doom : for a time , lie all crush in the bottom of stubb ' s boat , like one trodden under foot of herd of eleph . far inland , nameless wail came from him , as desol sound from out ravin . but thi intens of hi physic prostrat did but so much the more abbrevi it . In an instant ' s compass , great heart sometim condens to one deep pang , the sum total of those shallow pain kindli diffus through feebler men ' s whole live . and so , such heart , though summari in each one suffer ; still , if the god decre it , in their life - time aggreg a whole age of woe , wholli made up of instantan intens ; for even in their pointless centr , those nobl natur contain the entir circumfer of inferior soul . `` the harpoon , '' said ahab , half way rise , and draggingli lean on one bend arm -- '' is it safe ? '' `` aye , sir , for it wa not dart ; thi is it , '' said stubb , show it . `` lay it befor me ; -- ani miss men ? '' `` one , two , three , four , five ; -- there were five oar , sir , and here are five men . '' `` that ' s good . -- help me , man ; I wish to stand . So , so , I see him ! there ! there ! go to leeward still ; what a leap spout ! -- hand off from me ! the etern sap run up in ahab ' s bone again ! set the sail ; out oar ; the helm ! '' It is often the case that when a boat is stove , it crew , be pick up by anoth boat , help to work that second boat ; and the chase is thu continu with what is call doubl - bank oar . It wa thu now . but the ad power of the boat did not equal the ad power of the whale , for he seem to have trebl - bank hi everi fin ; swim with a veloc which plainli show , that if now , under these circumst , push on , the chase would prove an indefinit prolong , if not a hopeless one ; nor could ani crew endur for so long a period , such an unintermit , intens strain at the oar ; a thing bare toler onli in some one brief vicissitud . the ship itself , then , as it sometim happen , offer the most promis intermedi mean of overtak the chase . accordingli , the boat now made for her , and were soon sway up to their crane -- the two part of the wreck boat have been previous secur by her -- and then hoist everyth to her side , and stack her canva high up , and sideway outstretch it with stun - sail , like the doubl - joint wing of an albatross ; the pequod bore down in the leeward wake of mobi - dick . At the well known , method interv , the whale ' s glitter spout wa regularli announc from the man mast - head ; and when he would be report as just gone down , ahab would take the time , and then pace the deck , binnacl - watch in hand , so soon as the last second of the allot hour expir , hi voic wa heard . -- '' whose is the doubloon now ? D ' ye see him ? '' and if the repli wa , No , sir ! straightway he command them to lift him to hi perch . In thi way the day wore on ; ahab , now aloft and motionless ; anon , unrestingli pace the plank . As he wa thu walk , utter no sound , except to hail the men aloft , or to bid them hoist a sail still higher , or to spread one to a still greater breadth -- thu to and fro pace , beneath hi slouch hat , at everi turn he pass hi own wreck boat , which had been drop upon the quarter - deck , and lay there revers ; broken bow to shatter stern . At last he paus befor it ; and as in an alreadi over - cloud sky fresh troop of cloud will sometim sail across , so over the old man ' s face there now stole some such ad gloom as thi . stubb saw him paus ; and perhap intend , not vainli , though , to evinc hi own unab fortitud , and thu keep up a valiant place in hi captain ' s mind , he advanc , and eye the wreck exclaim -- '' the thistl the ass refus ; it prick hi mouth too keenli , sir ; ha ! ha ! '' `` what soulless thing is thi that laugh befor a wreck ? man , man ! did I not know thee brave as fearless fire ( and as mechan ) I could swear thou wert a poltroon . groan nor laugh should be heard befor a wreck . '' `` aye , sir , '' said starbuck draw near , `` ' ti a solemn sight ; an omen , and an ill one . '' `` omen ? omen ? -- the dictionari ! If the god think to speak outright to man , they will honour speak outright ; not shake their head , and give an old wive ' darkl hint . -- begon ! Ye two are the opposit pole of one thing ; starbuck is stubb revers , and stubb is starbuck ; and ye two are all mankind ; and ahab stand alon among the million of the peopl earth , nor god nor men hi neighbor ! cold , cold -- I shiver ! -- how now ? aloft there ! D ' ye see him ? sing out for everi spout , though he spout ten time a second ! '' the day wa nearli done ; onli the hem of hi golden robe wa rustl . soon , it wa almost dark , but the look - out men still remain unset . `` can ' t see the spout now , sir ; -- too dark `` -- cri a voic from the air . `` how head when last seen ? '' `` As befor , sir , -- straight to leeward . '' `` good ! he will travel slower now ' ti night . down royal and top - gallant stun - sail , Mr . starbuck . We must not run over him befor morn ; he ' s make a passag now , and may heav - to a while . helm there ! keep her full befor the wind ! -- aloft ! come down ! -- Mr . stubb , send a fresh hand to the fore - mast head , and see it man till morn . '' -- then advanc toward the doubloon in the main - mast -- '' men , thi gold is mine , for I earn it ; but I shall let it abid here till the white whale is dead ; and then , whosoev of ye first rais him , upon the day he shall be kill , thi gold is that man ' s ; and if on that day I shall again rais him , then , ten time it sum shall be divid among all of ye ! away now ! -- the deck is thine , sir ! '' and so say , he place himself half way within the scuttl , and slouch hi hat , stood there till dawn , except when at interv rous himself to see how the night wore on . chapter 134 the chase -- second day . At day - break , the three mast - head were punctual man afresh . `` D ' ye see him ? '' cri ahab after allow a littl space for the light to spread . `` see noth , sir . '' `` turn up all hand and make sail ! he travel faster than I thought for ; -- the top - gallant sail ! -- aye , they should have been kept on her all night . but no matter -- ' ti but rest for the rush . '' here be it said , that thi pertinaci pursuit of one particular whale , continu through day into night , and through night into day , is a thing by no mean unpreced in the south sea fisheri . for such is the wonder skill , prescienc of experi , and invinc confid acquir by some great natur genius among the nantucket command ; that from the simpl observ of a whale when last descri , they will , under certain given circumst , pretti accur foretel both the direct in which he will continu to swim for a time , while out of sight , as well as hi probabl rate of progress dure that period . and , in these case , somewhat as a pilot , when about lose sight of a coast , whose gener trend he well know , and which he desir shortli to return to again , but at some further point ; like as thi pilot stand by hi compass , and take the precis bear of the cape at present visibl , in order the more certainli to hit aright the remot , unseen headland , eventu to be visit : so doe the fisherman , at hi compass , with the whale ; for after be chase , and dilig mark , through sever hour of daylight , then , when night obscur the fish , the creatur ' s futur wake through the dark is almost as establish to the sagaci mind of the hunter , as the pilot ' s coast is to him . So that to thi hunter ' s wondrou skill , the proverbi evanesc of a thing writ in water , a wake , is to all desir purpos well nigh as reliabl as the steadfast land . and as the mighti iron leviathan of the modern railway is so familiarli known in it everi pace , that , with watch in their hand , men time hi rate as doctor that of a babi ' s puls ; and lightli say of it , the up train or the down train will reach such or such a spot , at such or such an hour ; even so , almost , there are occas when these nantucket time that other leviathan of the deep , accord to the observ humor of hi speed ; and say to themselv , so mani hour henc thi whale will have gone two hundr mile , will have about reach thi or that degre of latitud or longitud . but to render thi acut at all success in the end , the wind and the sea must be the whaleman ' s alli ; for of what present avail to the becalm or windbound marin is the skill that assur him he is exactli nineti - three leagu and a quarter from hi port ? infer from these statement , are mani collater subtil matter touch the chase of whale . the ship tore on ; leav such a furrow in the sea as when a cannon - ball , missent , becom a plough - share and turn up the level field . `` By salt and hemp ! '' cri stubb , `` but thi swift motion of the deck creep up one ' s leg and tingl at the heart . thi ship and I are two brave fellow ! -- Ha , ha ! some one take me up , and launch me , spine - wise , on the sea , -- for by live - oak ! my spine ' s a keel . Ha , ha ! we go the gait that leav no dust behind ! '' `` there she blow -- she blow ! -- she blow ! -- right ahead ! '' wa now the mast - head cri . `` aye , aye ! '' cri stubb , `` I knew it -- ye can ' t escap -- blow on and split your spout , O whale ! the mad fiend himself is after ye ! blow your trump -- blister your lung ! -- ahab will dam off your blood , as a miller shut hi waterg upon the stream ! '' and stubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew . the frenzi of the chase had by thi time work them bubblingli up , like old wine work anew . whatev pale fear and forebod some of them might have felt befor ; these were not onli now kept out of sight through the grow awe of ahab , but they were broken up , and on all side rout , as timid prairi hare that scatter befor the bound bison . the hand of fate had snatch all their soul ; and by the stir peril of the previou day ; the rack of the past night ' s suspens ; the fix , unfear , blind , reckless way in which their wild craft went plung toward it fli mark ; by all these thing , their heart were bowl along . the wind that made great belli of their sail , and rush the vessel on by arm invis as irresist ; thi seem the symbol of that unseen agenc which so enslav them to the race . they were one man , not thirti . for as the one ship that held them all ; though it wa put togeth of all contrast thing -- oak , and mapl , and pine wood ; iron , and pitch , and hemp -- yet all these ran into each other in the one concret hull , which shot on it way , both balanc and direct by the long central keel ; even so , all the individu of the crew , thi man ' s valor , that man ' s fear ; guilt and guilti , all varieti were weld into one , and were all direct to that fatal goal which ahab their one lord and keel did point to . the rig live . the mast - head , like the top of tall palm , were outspreadingli tuft with arm and leg . cling to a spar with one hand , some reach forth the other with impati wave ; other , shade their eye from the vivid sunlight , sat far out on the rock yard ; all the spar in full bear of mortal , readi and ripe for their fate . Ah ! how they still strove through that infinit blueness to seek out the thing that might destroy them ! `` whi sing ye not out for him , if ye see him ? '' cri ahab , when , after the laps of some minut sinc the first cri , no more had been heard . `` sway me up , men ; ye have been deceiv ; not mobi dick cast one odd jet that way , and then disappear . '' It wa even so ; in their headlong eager , the men had mistaken some other thing for the whale - spout , as the event itself soon prove ; for hardli had ahab reach hi perch ; hardli wa the rope belay to it pin on deck , when he struck the key - note to an orchestra , that made the air vibrat as with the combin discharg of rifl . the triumphant halloo of thirti buckskin lung wa heard , as -- much nearer to the ship than the place of the imaginari jet , less than a mile ahead -- mobi dick bodili burst into view ! for not by ani calm and indol spout ; not by the peaceabl gush of that mystic fountain in hi head , did the white whale now reveal hi vicin ; but by the far more wondrou phenomenon of breach . rise with hi utmost veloc from the furthest depth , the sperm whale thu boom hi entir bulk into the pure element of air , and pile up a mountain of dazzl foam , show hi place to the distanc of seven mile and more . In those moment , the torn , enrag wave he shake off , seem hi mane ; in some case , thi breach is hi act of defianc . `` there she breach ! there she breach ! '' wa the cri , as in hi immeasur bravado the white whale toss himself salmon - like to heaven . So suddenli seen in the blue plain of the sea , and reliev against the still bluer margin of the sky , the spray that he rais , for the moment , intoler glitter and glare like a glacier ; and stood there gradual fade and fade away from it first sparkl intens , to the dim misti of an advanc shower in a vale . `` aye , breach your last to the sun , mobi dick ! '' cri ahab , `` thi hour and thi harpoon are at hand ! -- down ! down all of ye , but one man at the fore . the boat ! -- stand by ! '' unmind of the tediou rope - ladder of the shroud , the men , like shoot star , slid to the deck , by the isol backstay and halyard ; while ahab , less dartingli , but still rapidli wa drop from hi perch . `` lower away , '' he cri , so soon as he had reach hi boat -- a spare one , rig the afternoon previou . `` Mr . starbuck , the ship is thine -- keep away from the boat , but keep near them . lower , all ! '' As if to strike a quick terror into them , by thi time be the first assail himself , mobi dick had turn , and wa now come for the three crew . ahab ' s boat wa central ; and cheer hi men , he told them he would take the whale head - and - head , -- that is , pull straight up to hi forehead , -- a not uncommon thing ; for when within a certain limit , such a cours exclud the come onset from the whale ' s sidelong vision . but ere that close limit wa gain , and while yet all three boat were plain as the ship ' s three mast to hi eye ; the white whale churn himself into furiou speed , almost in an instant as it were , rush among the boat with open jaw , and a lash tail , offer appal battl on everi side ; and heedless of the iron dart at him from everi boat , seem onli intent on annihil each separ plank of which those boat were made . but skil manoeuvr , incessantli wheel like train charger in the field ; the boat for a while elud him ; though , at time , but by a plank ' s breadth ; while all the time , ahab ' s unearthli slogan tore everi other cri but hi to shred . but at last in hi untrac evolut , the white whale so cross and recross , and in a thousand way entangl the slack of the three line now fast to him , that they foreshorten , and , of themselv , warp the devot boat toward the plant iron in him ; though now for a moment the whale drew asid a littl , as if to ralli for a more tremend charg . seiz that opportun , ahab first paid out more line : and then wa rapidli haul and jerk in upon it again -- hope that way to disencumb it of some snarl -- when lo ! -- a sight more savag than the embattl teeth of shark ! caught and twist -- corkscrew in the maze of the line , loos harpoon and lanc , with all their bristl barb and point , came flash and drip up to the chock in the bow of ahab ' s boat . onli one thing could be done . seiz the boat - knife , he critic reach within -- through -- and then , without -- the ray of steel ; drag in the line beyond , pass it , inboard , to the bowsman , and then , twice sunder the rope near the chock -- drop the intercept fagot of steel into the sea ; and wa all fast again . that instant , the white whale made a sudden rush among the remain tangl of the other line ; by so do , irresist drag the more involv boat of stubb and flask toward hi fluke ; dash them togeth like two roll husk on a surf - beaten beach , and then , dive down into the sea , disappear in a boil maelstrom , in which , for a space , the odor cedar chip of the wreck danc round and round , like the grate nutmeg in a swiftli stir bowl of punch . while the two crew were yet circl in the water , reach out after the revolv line - tub , oar , and other float furnitur , while aslop littl flask bob up and down like an empti vial , twitch hi leg upward to escap the dread jaw of shark ; and stubb wa lustili sing out for some one to ladl him up ; and while the old man ' s line -- now part -- admit of hi pull into the creami pool to rescu whom he could ; -- in that wild simultan of a thousand concret peril , -- ahab ' s yet unstricken boat seem drawn up toward heaven by invis wire , -- as , arrow - like , shoot perpendicularli from the sea , the white whale dash hi broad forehead against it bottom , and sent it , turn over and over , into the air ; till it fell again -- gunwal downward -- and ahab and hi men struggl out from under it , like seal from a sea - side cave . the first upris momentum of the whale -- modifi it direct as he struck the surfac -- involuntarili launch him along it , to a littl distanc from the centr of the destruct he had made ; and with hi back to it , he now lay for a moment slowli feel with hi fluke from side to side ; and whenev a stray oar , bit of plank , the least chip or crumb of the boat touch hi skin , hi tail swiftli drew back , and came sideway smite the sea . but soon , as if satisfi that hi work for that time wa done , he push hi pleat forehead through the ocean , and trail after him the intertangl line , continu hi leeward way at a travel ' s method pace . As befor , the attent ship have descri the whole fight , again came bear down to the rescu , and drop a boat , pick up the float marin , tub , oar , and whatev els could be caught at , and safe land them on her deck . some sprain shoulder , wrist , and ankl ; livid contus ; wrench harpoon and lanc ; inextric intricaci of rope ; shatter oar and plank ; all these were there ; but no fatal or even seriou ill seem to have befallen ani one . As with fedallah the day befor , so ahab wa now found grimli cling to hi boat ' s broken half , which afford a compar easi float ; nor did it so exhaust him as the previou day ' s mishap . but when he wa help to the deck , all eye were fasten upon him ; as instead of stand by himself he still half - hung upon the shoulder of starbuck , who had thu far been the foremost to assist him . hi ivori leg had been snap off , leav but one short sharp splinter . `` aye , aye , starbuck , ' ti sweet to lean sometim , be the leaner who he will ; and would old ahab had lean often than he ha . '' `` the ferrul ha not stood , sir , '' said the carpent , now come up ; `` I put good work into that leg . '' `` but no bone broken , sir , I hope , '' said stubb with true concern . `` aye ! and all splinter to piec , stubb ! -- d ' ye see it . -- but even with a broken bone , old ahab is untouch ; and I account no live bone of mine one jot more me , than thi dead one that ' s lost . nor white whale , nor man , nor fiend , can so much as graze old ahab in hi own proper and inaccess be . can ani lead touch yonder floor , ani mast scrape yonder roof ? -- aloft there ! which way ? '' `` dead to leeward , sir . '' `` Up helm , then ; pile on the sail again , ship keeper ! down the rest of the spare boat and rig them -- Mr . starbuck away , and muster the boat ' s crew . '' `` let me first help thee toward the bulwark , sir . '' `` Oh , oh , oh ! how thi splinter gore me now ! accurs fate ! that the unconquer captain in the soul should have such a craven mate ! '' `` sir ? '' `` My bodi , man , not thee . give me someth for a cane -- there , that shiver lanc will do . muster the men . sure I have not seen him yet . By heaven it can not be ! -- miss ? -- quick ! call them all . '' the old man ' s hint thought wa true . upon muster the compani , the parse wa not there . `` the parse ! '' cri stubb -- '' he must have been caught in -- '' `` the black vomit wrench thee ! -- run all of ye abov , alow , cabin , forecastl -- find him -- not gone -- not gone ! '' but quickli they return to him with the tide that the parse wa nowher to be found . `` aye , sir , '' said stubb -- '' caught among the tangl of your line -- I thought I saw him drag under . '' `` MY line ! MY line ? gone ? -- gone ? what mean that littl word ? -- what death - knell ring in it , that old ahab shake as if he were the belfri . the harpoon , too ! -- toss over the litter there , -- d ' ye see it ? -- the forg iron , men , the white whale ' s -- no , no , no , -- blister fool ! thi hand did dart it ! -- ' ti in the fish ! -- aloft there ! keep him nail -- quick ! -- all hand to the rig of the boat -- collect the oar -- harpoon ! the iron , the iron ! -- hoist the royal higher -- a pull on all the sheet ! -- helm there ! steadi , steadi for your life ! I ' ll ten time girdl the unmeasur globe ; yea and dive straight through it , but I ' ll slay him yet ! `` great god ! but for one singl instant show thyself , '' cri starbuck ; `` never , never wilt thou captur him , old man -- In jesu ' name no more of thi , that ' s wors than devil ' s mad . two day chase ; twice stove to splinter ; thi veri leg onc more snatch from under thee ; thi evil shadow gone -- all good angel mob thee with warn : -- what more wouldst thou have ? -- shall we keep chase thi murder fish till he swamp the last man ? shall we be drag by him to the bottom of the sea ? shall we be tow by him to the infern world ? Oh , oh , -- impieti and blasphemi to hunt him more ! '' `` starbuck , of late I ' ve felt strang move to thee ; ever sinc that hour we both saw -- thou know ' st what , in one anoth ' s eye . but in thi matter of the whale , be the front of thi face to me as the palm of thi hand -- a lipless , unfeatur blank . ahab is for ever ahab , man . thi whole act ' s immut decre . ' twa rehears by thee and me a billion year befor thi ocean roll . fool ! I am the fate ' lieuten ; I act under order . look thou , underl ! that thou obeyest mine . -- stand round me , men . Ye see an old man cut down to the stump ; lean on a shiver lanc ; prop up on a lone foot . ' ti ahab -- hi bodi ' s part ; but ahab ' s soul ' s a centiped , that move upon a hundr leg . I feel strain , half strand , as rope that tow dismast frigat in a gale ; and I may look so . but ere I break , yell hear me crack ; and till ye hear that , know that ahab ' s hawser tow hi purpos yet . believ ye , men , in the thing call omen ? then laugh aloud , and cri encor ! for ere they drown , drown thing will twice rise to the surfac ; then rise again , to sink for evermor . So with mobi dick -- two day he ' s float -- tomorrow will be the third . aye , men , he ' ll rise onc more , -- but onli to spout hi last ! D ' ye feel brave men , brave ? '' `` As fearless fire , '' cri stubb . `` and as mechan , '' mutter ahab . then as the men went forward , he mutter on : `` the thing call omen ! and yesterday I talk the same to starbuck there , concern my broken boat . Oh ! how valiantli I seek to drive out of other ' heart what ' s clinch so fast in mine ! -- the parse -- the parse ! -- gone , gone ? and he wa to go befor : -- but still wa to be seen again ere I could perish -- how ' s that ? -- there ' s a riddl now might baffl all the lawyer back by the ghost of the whole line of judg : -- like a hawk ' s beak it peck my brain . I ' LL , I ' LL solv it , though ! '' when dusk descend , the whale wa still in sight to leeward . So onc more the sail wa shorten , and everyth pass nearli as on the previou night ; onli , the sound of hammer , and the hum of the grindston wa heard till nearli daylight , as the men toil by lantern in the complet and care rig of the spare boat and sharpen their fresh weapon for the morrow . meantim , of the broken keel of ahab ' s wreck craft the carpent made him anoth leg ; while still as on the night befor , slouch ahab stood fix within hi scuttl ; hi hid , heliotrop glanc anticipatingli gone backward on it dial ; sat due eastward for the earliest sun . chapter 135 the chase . -- third day . the morn of the third day dawn fair and fresh , and onc more the solitari night - man at the fore - mast - head wa reliev by crowd of the daylight look - out , who dot everi mast and almost everi spar . `` D ' ye see him ? '' cri ahab ; but the whale wa not yet in sight . `` In hi infal wake , though ; but follow that wake , that ' s all . helm there ; steadi , as thou goest , and hast been go . what a love day again ! were it a new - made world , and made for a summer - hous to the angel , and thi morn the first of it throw open to them , a fairer day could not dawn upon that world . here ' s food for thought , had ahab time to think ; but ahab never think ; he onli feel , feel , feel ; that ' S tingl enough for mortal man ! to think ' s audac . god onli ha that right and privileg . think is , or ought to be , a cool and a calm ; and our poor heart throb , and our poor brain beat too much for that . and yet , I ' ve sometim thought my brain wa veri calm -- frozen calm , thi old skull crack so , like a glass in which the content turn to ice , and shiver it . and still thi hair is grow now ; thi moment grow , and heat must breed it ; but no , it ' s like that sort of common grass that will grow anywher , between the earthi cleft of greenland ice or in vesuviu lava . how the wild wind blow it ; they whip it about me as the torn shred of split sail lash the toss ship they cling to . A vile wind that ha no doubt blown ere thi through prison corridor and cell , and ward of hospit , and ventil them , and now come blow hither as innoc as fleec . out upon it ! -- it ' s taint . were I the wind , I ' d blow no more on such a wick , miser world . I ' d crawl somewher to a cave , and slink there . and yet , ' ti a nobl and heroic thing , the wind ! who ever conquer it ? In everi fight it ha the last and bitterest blow . run tilt at it , and you but run through it . Ha ! a coward wind that strike stark nake men , but will not stand to receiv a singl blow . even ahab is a braver thing -- a nobler thing than that . would now the wind but had a bodi ; but all the thing that most exasper and outrag mortal man , all these thing are bodiless , but onli bodiless as object , not as agent . there ' s a most special , a most cun , oh , a most malici differ ! and yet , I say again , and swear it now , that there ' s someth all gloriou and graciou in the wind . these warm trade wind , at least , that in the clear heaven blow straight on , in strong and steadfast , vigor mild ; and veer not from their mark , howev the baser current of the sea may turn and tack , and mightiest mississippi of the land swift and swerv about , uncertain where to go at last . and by the etern pole ! these same trade that so directli blow my good ship on ; these trade , or someth like them -- someth so unchang , and full as strong , blow my keel soul along ! To it ! aloft there ! what d ' ye see ? '' `` noth , sir . '' `` noth ! and noon at hand ! the doubloon goe a - beg ! see the sun ! aye , aye , it must be so . I ' ve oversail him . how , got the start ? aye , he ' s chase ME now ; not I , him -- that ' s bad ; I might have known it , too . fool ! the line -- the harpoon he ' s tow . aye , aye , I have run him by last night . about ! about ! come down , all of ye , but the regular look out ! man the brace ! '' steer as she had done , the wind had been somewhat on the pequod ' s quarter , so that now be point in the revers direct , the brace ship sail hard upon the breez as she rechurn the cream in her own white wake . `` against the wind he now steer for the open jaw , '' murmur starbuck to himself , as he coil the new - haul main - brace upon the rail . `` god keep us , but alreadi my bone feel damp within me , and from the insid wet my flesh . I misdoubt me that I disobey my god in obey him ! '' `` stand by to sway me up ! '' cri ahab , advanc to the hempen basket . `` We should meet him soon . '' `` aye , aye , sir , '' and straightway starbuck did ahab ' s bid , and onc more ahab swung on high . A whole hour now pass ; gold - beaten out to age . time itself now held long breath with keen suspens . but at last , some three point off the weather bow , ahab descri the spout again , and instantli from the three mast - head three shriek went up as if the tongu of fire had voic it . `` forehead to forehead I meet thee , thi third time , mobi dick ! On deck there ! -- brace sharper up ; crowd her into the wind ' s eye . He ' s too far off to lower yet , Mr . starbuck . the sail shake ! stand over that helmsman with a top - maul ! So , so ; he travel fast , and I must down . but let me have one more good round look aloft here at the sea ; there ' s time for that . An old , old sight , and yet somehow so young ; aye , and not chang a wink sinc I first saw it , a boy , from the sand - hill of nantucket ! the same ! -- the same ! -- the same to noah as to me . there ' s a soft shower to leeward . such love leeward ! they must lead somewher -- to someth els than common land , more palmi than the palm . leeward ! the white whale goe that way ; look to windward , then ; the better if the bitter quarter . but good bye , good bye , old mast - head ! what ' s thi ? -- green ? aye , tini moss in these warp crack . No such green weather stain on ahab ' s head ! there ' s the differ now between man ' s old age and matter ' s . but aye , old mast , we both grow old togeth ; sound in our hull , though , are we not , my ship ? aye , minu a leg , that ' s all . By heaven thi dead wood ha the better of my live flesh everi way . I can ' t compar with it ; and I ' ve known some ship made of dead tree outlast the live of men made of the most vital stuff of vital father . what ' s that he said ? he should still go befor me , my pilot ; and yet to be seen again ? but where ? will I have eye at the bottom of the sea , suppos I descend those endless stair ? and all night I ' ve been sail from him , wherev he did sink to . aye , aye , like mani more thou told ' st dire truth as touch thyself , O parse ; but , ahab , there thi shot fell short . good - bye , mast - head -- keep a good eye upon the whale , the while I ' m gone . We ' ll talk to - morrow , nay , to - night , when the white whale lie down there , tie by head and tail . '' He gave the word ; and still gaze round him , wa steadili lower through the cloven blue air to the deck . In due time the boat were lower ; but as stand in hi shallop ' s stern , ahab just hover upon the point of the descent , he wave to the mate , -- who held one of the tackl - rope on deck -- and bade him paus . `` starbuck ! '' `` sir ? '' `` for the third time my soul ' s ship start upon thi voyag , starbuck . '' `` aye , sir , thou wilt have it so . '' `` some ship sail from their port , and ever afterward are miss , starbuck ! '' `` truth , sir : saddest truth . '' `` some men die at ebb tide ; some at low water ; some at the full of the flood ; -- and I feel now like a billow that ' s all one crest comb , starbuck . I am old ; -- shake hand with me , man . '' their hand met ; their eye fasten ; starbuck ' s tear the glue . `` Oh , my captain , my captain ! -- nobl heart -- go not -- go not ! -- see , it ' s a brave man that weep ; how great the agoni of the persuas then ! '' `` lower away ! '' -- cri ahab , toss the mate ' s arm from him . `` stand by the crew ! '' In an instant the boat wa pull round close under the stern . `` the shark ! the shark ! '' cri a voic from the low cabin - window there ; `` O master , my master , come back ! '' but ahab heard noth ; for hi own voic wa high - lift then ; and the boat leap on . yet the voic spake true ; for scarc had he push from the ship , when number of shark , seemingli rise from out the dark water beneath the hull , malici snap at the blade of the oar , everi time they dip in the water ; and in thi way accompani the boat with their bite . It is a thing not uncommonli happen to the whale - boat in those swarm sea ; the shark at time appar follow them in the same prescient way that vultur hover over the banner of march regiment in the east . but these were the first shark that had been observ by the pequod sinc the white whale had been first descri ; and whether it wa that ahab ' s crew were all such tiger - yellow barbarian , and therefor their flesh more muski to the sens of the shark -- a matter sometim well known to affect them , -- howev it wa , they seem to follow that one boat without molest the other . `` heart of wrought steel ! '' murmur starbuck gaze over the side , and follow with hi eye the reced boat -- '' canst thou yet ring boldli to that sight ? -- lower thi keel among raven shark , and follow by them , open - mouth to the chase ; and thi the critic third day ? -- for when three day flow togeth in one continu intens pursuit ; be sure the first is the morn , the second the noon , and the third the even and the end of that thing -- be that end what it may . Oh ! my god ! what is thi that shoot through me , and leav me so deadli calm , yet expect , -- fix at the top of a shudder ! futur thing swim befor me , as in empti outlin and skeleton ; all the past is somehow grown dim . mari , girl ! thou fadest in pale glori behind me ; boy ! I seem to see but thi eye grown wondrou blue . strangest problem of life seem clear ; but cloud sweep between -- Is my journey ' s end come ? My leg feel faint ; like hi who ha foot it all day . feel thi heart , -- beat it yet ? stir thyself , starbuck ! -- stave it off -- move , move ! speak aloud ! -- mast - head there ! see ye my boy ' s hand on the hill ? -- craze ; -- aloft there ! -- keep thi keenest eye upon the boat : -- mark well the whale ! -- Ho ! again ! -- drive off that hawk ! see ! he peck -- he tear the vane `` -- point to the red flag fli at the main - truck -- '' Ha ! he soar away with it ! -- where ' s the old man now ? see ' st thou that sight , oh ahab ! -- shudder , shudder ! '' the boat had not gone veri far , when by a signal from the mast - head -- a downward point arm , ahab knew that the whale had sound ; but intend to be near him at the next rise , he held on hi way a littl sideway from the vessel ; the becharm crew maintain the profoundest silenc , as the head - beat wave hammer and hammer against the oppos bow . `` drive , drive in your nail , oh ye wave ! to their uttermost head drive them in ! ye but strike a thing without a lid ; and no coffin and no hears can be mine : -- and hemp onli can kill me ! Ha ! ha ! '' suddenli the water around them slowli swell in broad circl ; then quickli upheav , as if sideway slide from a submerg berg of ice , swiftli rise to the surfac . A low rumbl sound wa heard ; a subterran hum ; and then all held their breath ; as bedraggl with trail rope , and harpoon , and lanc , a vast form shot lengthwis , but obliqu from the sea . shroud in a thin droop veil of mist , it hover for a moment in the rainbow air ; and then fell swamp back into the deep . crush thirti feet upward , the water flash for an instant like heap of fountain , then brokenli sank in a shower of flake , leav the circl surfac cream like new milk round the marbl trunk of the whale . `` give way ! '' cri ahab to the oarsmen , and the boat dart forward to the attack ; but madden by yesterday ' s fresh iron that corrod in him , mobi dick seem combinedli possess by all the angel that fell from heaven . the wide tier of weld tendon overspread hi broad white forehead , beneath the transpar skin , look knit togeth ; as head on , he came churn hi tail among the boat ; and onc more flail them apart ; spill out the iron and lanc from the two mate ' boat , and dash in one side of the upper part of their bow , but leav ahab ' s almost without a scar . while daggoo and queequeg were stop the strain plank ; and as the whale swim out from them , turn , and show one entir flank as he shot by them again ; at that moment a quick cri went up . lash round and round to the fish ' s back ; pinion in the turn upon turn in which , dure the past night , the whale had reel the involut of the line around him , the half torn bodi of the parse wa seen ; hi sabl raiment fray to shred ; hi distend eye turn full upon old ahab . the harpoon drop from hi hand . `` befool , befool ! '' -- draw in a long lean breath -- '' aye , parse ! I see thee again . -- aye , and thou goest befor ; and thi , thi then is the hears that thou didst promis . but I hold thee to the last letter of thi word . where is the second hears ? away , mate , to the ship ! those boat are useless now ; repair them if ye can in time , and return to me ; if not , ahab is enough to die -- down , men ! the first thing that but offer to jump from thi boat I stand in , that thing I harpoon . Ye are not other men , but my arm and my leg ; and so obey me . -- where ' s the whale ? gone down again ? '' but he look too nigh the boat ; for as if bent upon escap with the corps he bore , and as if the particular place of the last encount had been but a stage in hi leeward voyag , mobi dick wa now again steadili swim forward ; and had almost pass the ship , -- which thu far had been sail in the contrari direct to him , though for the present her headway had been stop . He seem swim with hi utmost veloc , and now onli intent upon pursu hi own straight path in the sea . `` Oh ! ahab , '' cri starbuck , `` not too late is it , even now , the third day , to desist . see ! mobi dick seek thee not . It is thou , thou , that madli seekest him ! '' set sail to the rise wind , the lone boat wa swiftli impel to leeward , by both oar and canva . and at last when ahab wa slide by the vessel , so near as plainli to distinguish starbuck ' s face as he lean over the rail , he hail him to turn the vessel about , and follow him , not too swiftli , at a judici interv . glanc upward , he saw tashtego , queequeg , and daggoo , eagerli mount to the three mast - head ; while the oarsmen were rock in the two stave boat which had but just been hoist to the side , and were busili at work in repair them . one after the other , through the port - hole , as he sped , he also caught fli glimps of stubb and flask , busi themselv on deck among bundl of new iron and lanc . As he saw all thi ; as he heard the hammer in the broken boat ; far other hammer seem drive a nail into hi heart . but he ralli . and now mark that the vane or flag wa gone from the main - mast - head , he shout to tashtego , who had just gain that perch , to descend again for anoth flag , and a hammer and nail , and so nail it to the mast . whether fag by the three day ' run chase , and the resist to hi swim in the knot hamper he bore ; or whether it wa some latent deceit and malic in him : whichev wa true , the white whale ' s way now began to abat , as it seem , from the boat so rapidli near him onc more ; though inde the whale ' s last start had not been so long a one as befor . and still as ahab glide over the wave the unpiti shark accompani him ; and so pertinaci stuck to the boat ; and so continu bit at the pli oar , that the blade becam jag and crunch , and left small splinter in the sea , at almost everi dip . `` heed them not ! those teeth but give new rowlock to your oar . pull on ! ' ti the better rest , the shark ' s jaw than the yield water . '' `` but at everi bite , sir , the thin blade grow smaller and smaller ! '' `` they will last long enough ! pull on ! -- but who can tell `` -- he mutter -- '' whether these shark swim to feast on the whale or on ahab ? -- but pull on ! aye , all aliv , now -- we near him . the helm ! take the helm ! let me pass , '' -- and so say two of the oarsmen help him forward to the bow of the still fli boat . At length as the craft wa cast to one side , and ran rang along with the white whale ' s flank , he seem strang oblivi of it advanc -- as the whale sometim will -- and ahab wa fairli within the smoki mountain mist , which , thrown off from the whale ' s spout , curl round hi great , monadnock hump ; he wa even thu close to him ; when , with bodi arch back , and both arm lengthwis high - lift to the pois , he dart hi fierc iron , and hi far fiercer curs into the hate whale . As both steel and curs sank to the socket , as if suck into a morass , mobi dick sideway writh ; spasmod roll hi nigh flank against the bow , and , without stave a hole in it , so suddenli cant the boat over , that had it not been for the elev part of the gunwal to which he then clung , ahab would onc more have been toss into the sea . As it wa , three of the oarsmen -- who foreknew not the precis instant of the dart , and were therefor unprepar for it effect -- these were flung out ; but so fell , that , in an instant two of them clutch the gunwal again , and rise to it level on a comb wave , hurl themselv bodili inboard again ; the third man helplessli drop astern , but still afloat and swim . almost simultan , with a mighti volit of ungradu , instantan swift , the white whale dart through the welter sea . but when ahab cri out to the steersman to take new turn with the line , and hold it so ; and command the crew to turn round on their seat , and tow the boat up to the mark ; the moment the treacher line felt that doubl strain and tug , it snap in the empti air ! `` what break in me ? some sinew crack ! -- ' ti whole again ; oar ! oar ! burst in upon him ! '' hear the tremend rush of the sea - crash boat , the whale wheel round to present hi blank forehead at bay ; but in that evolut , catch sight of the near black hull of the ship ; seemingli see in it the sourc of all hi persecut ; bethink it -- it may be -- a larger and nobler foe ; of a sudden , he bore down upon it advanc prow , smite hi jaw amid fieri shower of foam . ahab stagger ; hi hand smote hi forehead . `` I grow blind ; hand ! stretch out befor me that I may yet grope my way . Is ' t night ? '' `` the whale ! the ship ! '' cri the cring oarsmen . `` oar ! oar ! slope downward to thi depth , O sea , that ere it be for ever too late , ahab may slide thi last , last time upon hi mark ! I see : the ship ! the ship ! dash on , my men ! will ye not save my ship ? '' but as the oarsmen violent forc their boat through the sledg - hammer sea , the befor whale - smitten bow - end of two plank burst through , and in an instant almost , the temporarili disabl boat lay nearli level with the wave ; it half - wade , splash crew , tri hard to stop the gap and bale out the pour water . meantim , for that one behold instant , tashtego ' s mast - head hammer remain suspend in hi hand ; and the red flag , half - wrap him as with a plaid , then stream itself straight out from him , as hi own forward - flow heart ; while starbuck and stubb , stand upon the bowsprit beneath , caught sight of the down - come monster just as soon as he . `` the whale , the whale ! Up helm , up helm ! Oh , all ye sweet power of air , now hug me close ! let not starbuck die , if die he must , in a woman ' s faint fit . Up helm , I say -- ye fool , the jaw ! the jaw ! Is thi the end of all my burst prayer ? all my life - long fidel ? Oh , ahab , ahab , lo , thi work . steadi ! helmsman , steadi . nay , nay ! Up helm again ! He turn to meet us ! Oh , hi unappeas brow drive on toward one , whose duti tell him he can not depart . My god , stand by me now ! '' `` stand not by me , but stand under me , whoever you are that will now help stubb ; for stubb , too , stick here . I grin at thee , thou grin whale ! who ever help stubb , or kept stubb awak , but stubb ' s own unwink eye ? and now poor stubb goe to bed upon a mattrass that is all too soft ; would it were stuf with brushwood ! I grin at thee , thou grin whale ! look ye , sun , moon , and star ! I call ye assassin of as good a fellow as ever spout up hi ghost . for all that , I would yet ring glass with ye , would ye but hand the cup ! Oh , oh ! oh , oh ! thou grin whale , but there ' ll be plenti of gulp soon ! whi fli ye not , O ahab ! for me , off shoe and jacket to it ; let stubb die in hi drawer ! A most mouldi and over salt death , though ; -- cherri ! cherri ! cherri ! Oh , flask , for one red cherri ere we die ! '' `` cherri ? I onli wish that we were where they grow . Oh , stubb , I hope my poor mother ' s drawn my part - pay ere thi ; if not , few copper will now come to her , for the voyag is up . '' from the ship ' s bow , nearli all the seamen now hung inact ; hammer , bit of plank , lanc , and harpoon , mechan retain in their hand , just as they had dart from their variou employ ; all their enchant eye intent upon the whale , which from side to side strang vibrat hi predestin head , sent a broad band of overspread semicircular foam befor him as he rush . retribut , swift vengeanc , etern malic were in hi whole aspect , and spite of all that mortal man could do , the solid white buttress of hi forehead smote the ship ' s starboard bow , till men and timber reel . some fell flat upon their face . like dislodg truck , the head of the harpoon aloft shook on their bull - like neck . through the breach , they heard the water pour , as mountain torrent down a flume . `` the ship ! the hears ! -- the second hears ! '' cri ahab from the boat ; `` it wood could onli be american ! '' dive beneath the settl ship , the whale ran quiver along it keel ; but turn under water , swiftli shot to the surfac again , far off the other bow , but within a few yard of ahab ' s boat , where , for a time , he lay quiescent . `` I turn my bodi from the sun . what ho , tashtego ! let me hear thi hammer . Oh ! ye three unsurrend spire of mine ; thou uncrack keel ; and onli god - bulli hull ; thou firm deck , and haughti helm , and pole - point prow , -- death - gloriou ship ! must ye then perish , and without me ? Am I cut off from the last fond pride of meanest shipwreck captain ? Oh , lone death on lone life ! Oh , now I feel my topmost great lie in my topmost grief . Ho , ho ! from all your furthest bound , pour ye now in , ye bold billow of my whole foregon life , and top thi one pile comber of my death ! toward thee I roll , thou all - destroy but unconqu whale ; to the last I grappl with thee ; from hell ' s heart I stab at thee ; for hate ' s sake I spit my last breath at thee . sink all coffin and all hears to one common pool ! and sinc neither can be mine , let me then tow to piec , while still chase thee , though tie to thee , thou damn whale ! thu , I give up the spear ! '' the harpoon wa dart ; the stricken whale flew forward ; with ignit veloc the line ran through the groov ; -- ran foul . ahab stoop to clear it ; he did clear it ; but the fli turn caught him round the neck , and voicelessli as turkish mute bowstr their victim , he wa shot out of the boat , ere the crew knew he wa gone . next instant , the heavi eye - splice in the rope ' s final end flew out of the stark - empti tub , knock down an oarsman , and smite the sea , disappear in it depth . for an instant , the tranc boat ' s crew stood still ; then turn . `` the ship ? great god , where is the ship ? '' soon they through dim , bewild medium saw her sidelong fade phantom , as in the gaseou fata morgana ; onli the uppermost mast out of water ; while fix by infatu , or fidel , or fate , to their onc lofti perch , the pagan harpoon still maintain their sink lookout on the sea . and now , concentr circl seiz the lone boat itself , and all it crew , and each float oar , and everi lanc - pole , and spin , anim and inanim , all round and round in one vortex , carri the smallest chip of the pequod out of sight . but as the last whelm intermixingli pour themselv over the sunken head of the indian at the mainmast , leav a few inch of the erect spar yet visibl , togeth with long stream yard of the flag , which calmli undul , with iron coincid , over the destroy billow they almost touch ; -- at that instant , a red arm and a hammer hover backwardli uplift in the open air , in the act of nail the flag faster and yet faster to the subsid spar . A sky - hawk that tauntingli had follow the main - truck downward from it natur home among the star , peck at the flag , and incommod tashtego there ; thi bird now chanc to intercept it broad flutter wing between the hammer and the wood ; and simultan feel that etheri thrill , the submerg savag beneath , in hi death - gasp , kept hi hammer frozen there ; and so the bird of heaven , with archangel shriek , and hi imperi beak thrust upward , and hi whole captiv form fold in the flag of ahab , went down with hi ship , which , like satan , would not sink to hell till she had drag a live part of heaven along with her , and helmet herself with it . now small fowl flew scream over the yet yawn gulf ; a sullen white surf beat against it steep side ; then all collaps , and the great shroud of the sea roll on as it roll five thousand year ago . epilogu `` and I onli AM escap alon TO tell thee `` job . the drama ' s done . whi then here doe ani one step forth ? -- becaus one did surviv the wreck . It so chanc , that after the parse ' s disappear , I wa he whom the fate ordain to take the place of ahab ' s bowsman , when that bowsman assum the vacant post ; the same , who , when on the last day the three men were toss from out of the rock boat , wa drop astern . So , float on the margin of the ensu scene , and in full sight of it , when the halfspent suction of the sunk ship reach me , I wa then , but slowli , drawn toward the close vortex . when I reach it , it had subsid to a creami pool . round and round , then , and ever contract toward the button - like black bubbl at the axi of that slowli wheel circl , like anoth ixion I did revolv . till , gain that vital centr , the black bubbl upward burst ; and now , liber by reason of it cun spring , and , owe to it great buoyanc , rise with great forc , the coffin life - buoy shot lengthwis from the sea , fell over , and float by my side . buoy up by that coffin , for almost one whole day and night , I float on a soft and dirgelik main . the unharm shark , they glide by as if with padlock on their mouth ; the savag sea - hawk sail with sheath beak . On the second day , a sail drew near , nearer , and pick me up at last . It wa the deviou - cruis rachel , that in her retrac search after her miss children , onli found anoth orphan . 